Investors are saying that everything is
awesome and there's not a lot of risk.
We have a stronger stock market at this
point. So that does embolden the
president to go forward and be more
aggressive. Now
>> there will be very big differences if
the tariffs come out at the higher
level.
>> What the market is telling you is that
yes, we're expecting volatility.
>> We could spend a lot of time thinking
about the noise. The volatility is out
there. It hasn't paid off to just say
I'm going to stay off the market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, full court press.
>> I think if Jerome Powell stepped down,
it would be a great thing. I don't know
that he's going to, but uh he should.
Jerome Pal has been very bad for our
country. The Fed has a lot to answer
for. What we need is regime change at
the Fed. It's about breaking some heads
cuz the way they've been doing business
is not working.
>> Fed chair J Pal facing pressure from all
sides in Washington DC as President
Donald Trump ramps up the rhetoric on
trade partners. Equity markets are
facing down a week absolutely full with
event risk. Bank earnings and CPI are
just around the corner.
>> Yeah, you know, it's often we come to
the week and say this is going to be a
big week. This one truly will be pivotal
because we'll understand how tariffs are
getting trickling uh trickled out
whether it's with consumer prices with
CPI or whether it's a hit to corporate
earnings from some of the earnings that
we get across the board and that's not
even including the increasingly heated
discussion around tariffs what the
tariff rate is at a time where Jay
Powell said that he had to hold off
until he had some certainty around just
what the level of those levies would be.
>> This week is a big week. This weekend
was a big weekend. Equity futures are
down just a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500. Bond yields are higher by about a
basis point.
>> And it's a big weekend considering the
president came out when it comes to eur
the European Union and Mexico saying
there's going to be a 30% tariff rate. I
look at what Kevin Hasset said though
over the weekend. The NEC director he
says well you know these tariffs are
real if the president doesn't get a deal
that he thinks is good enough. But you
know conversations are ongoing. It feels
like the president 2 and a half weeks
out from August 1st is still right now
in negotiating mode. Pressure up on
trading partners. Pressure up on
Chairman Pal. What is the price of
firing Chairman Pal? George Saravevelis
of Deutsche Bank with this to say. What
is the cost? If you were to force Powell
out of his job, the next 24 hours would
probably see a drop of at least 3 to 4%
in a trade weighted dollar. And for bond
yields, a move of 30 to 40 basis points
in a fixed income selloff.
>> So it goes to really the implication
that you had. We had all of these
fireworks over the weekend, whether it's
around finding backdoor ways to fire Jay
Powell or whether it's the increased
rate uh that was given to the European
Union and to Mexico. Why are stocks not
responding? Why are we not seeing yields
in the United States creeping higher
than they are just globally with a
global bond yield selloff? These are
some of the big questions that I have.
Why are people so sanguin at a time of
such heated rhetoric?
>> Markets are looking through the threats
now. Now, is it justified based on
experience or is it complacency going
into a big week ahead?
>> Well, Trump feels encouraged and he said
this to NBC News on Thursday. He said,
"I think the tariffs have been
wellreceived. The stock market hit an
all-time high today." So, basically,
he's looking at the market and he's
saying they're not pushing back. We saw
him reverse course when the markets push
back. They haven't yet. So, he feels
almost emboldened. And when it comes to
Jay Powell, they're going after what the
Fed is doing in terms of refurbishments
and they're calling it Versailles. This
has been going on for a number of weeks
now. But I think the real issue this
administration has right now is that
when you repeatedly hear from J Pal. But
whether or not he'll stay on after he
his chairmanship is ended through 2028.
He doesn't give an answer and I think
that bothers them.
>> Lots of drama over the weekend. No drama
whatsoever this morning. Equity futures
down by about a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Peter Chair of Academy as President
Trump escalates tariff threats. will
speak to the former senior White House
trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw on the EU's
response and Leo Fella of numerator as
investors await key inflation data. We
begin this hour with our top story,
President Trump threatening 30% tariffs
on the EU and Mexico. Our team coverage
starts right now with Bloomberg's Brenda
Murray from London. Tyler Kendall in
Washington DC. Tyler Kendall, what is
the latest on the trade front?
>> Yeah, hey John, good morning. Well, two
fresh tariff threats over the weekend as
you were discussing. 30% now for Mexico
and the European Union. When it does
come to the EU, we heard from their
chief trade negotiator earlier on on
this morning who did confirm he has
plans to speak with US officials to keep
the negotiations going because
ultimately this does seem to put a
damper on what was seen as relative
progress for the EU considering they had
moved up in line was our understanding
after previous frustration from the
White House. Now, if you ask the
administration, 30% is lower than the
50% tariff threat that they were facing.
But of course, it is still a very high
number. And we heard from the German
chancellor over the weekend, for
example, who said that if a 30% tariff
was enacted, Germany's economy, the
largest economy in the European Union,
would be hit to its core. That raises
questions here about what sort of
concessions could be on the table. And
what are those sticking points? Of
course, we know that EU negotiators seem
to be zeroing in on those sector
specific tariffs, particularly when it
comes to autos, and we know that the US
has raised concerns about market access
for US agricultural goods. John, there
is of course a range of issues here,
particularly when it comes to the EU.
But I'm going to put another quick one,
another aspect to watch out for on your
radar, which is how the administration
often talks about defense spending
coming into these discussions. We heard
from President Trump yesterday saying
that the US is preparing to send a
Patriot missile battery, uh, perhaps
multiple. He said they haven't decided
on a number to Ukraine. We could get
that announcement later today, but when
asked who is going to pay for it, his
answer was Europe.
>> Europe in focus. Brenda Murray, let's
sit on Europe. The response so far,
cool, calm, collected, and the prospect
of coordination between the European
Union and other countries. What are we
learning about that this morning?
>> Yeah, essentially up until now, you had
two options uh in dealing with the Trump
administration. and you could negotiate
and you were going to have to basically
accept a deal that was unfair to you, a
baseline 10% tariff or something higher
or you could retaliate. And we've seen
no country really come back and
retaliate. But this third option seems
to be coming more and more into focus
and that is what if we band together and
we coordinate a response against the US.
We can't win the fight one-on-one with
Donald Trump. He's always going to have
more leverage than we do. But perhaps
the the some of these countries uh the
the Canada, the EU, uh some countries in
Asia could come together and to and and
put pressure on collectively. Now, we
don't know what the details of any sort
of coordination would be at this stage,
but it sounds like there's growing uh
acceptance that this third path is
really the only way to stand up to
President Trump and all these uh high
reciprocal tariffs. the European Union
uh you said today that that would essent
essentially cut off transatlantic trade.
So that's a non-starter for them and
talks that were looking pretty
optimistic just a week or two ago look
to be heading uh in in the other
direction now.
>> Hey Brendan, appreciate the update
alongside Tal Kendall in London and
Washington respectively. Brenda went
through the three choices here.
Negotiate, retaliate, coordinate. That
third choice is something we're
exploring this morning. the idea that
maybe countries are going to get
together creating a framework outside of
the United States. They cannot replace
the United States consumer, but there is
this feeling maybe there needs to be
stronger coordination. I'll just say
there was a real question about what
kind of consensus there is there and
just how much is going to be the
Europeans absorbing some of the excess
supply that still keeps getting exported
out of China.
>> And we saw that today with the China
trade numbers. What I find so
interesting though, this is counter what
some Republicans actually want to see
this administration do. And we heard
that from his former vice president,
Mike Pence. It's collectively find a
fair trading balance with your partners
and then isolate China, not the rest of
the world working together to isolate
the United States.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. I'm sure you heard all the
threats over the weekend. Interested in
how this market was going to open this
Monday morning? Here it is. Equity
futures down by about a third of 1% on
the S&P. Here's the view on Wall Street
so far this morning. Peter Cher Academy
writing the following. While the market
is right not to get too concerned at the
moment, there is a risk that it's being
very complacent. Pete joins us now for
more. Pete, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> That risk always exists. Let's talk
about whether the base case right now is
justified or complacent.
>> I think it's heading towards complacent.
I think the administration seems very
comfortable with tariffs. They're coming
out talking about them. Let's not forget
Trump a he really liked tariffs and I
think this whole taco thing is overdone.
I think he pivoted, right? It wasn't
going well. Stock market was coming
down. He had other things to focus on.
He pulled back. Now he's had a few big
wins. I think it what the success that
we had in Iran very positive for him.
Getting NATO to agree to 5% except for
Spain that was a very positive for him.
Getting the big beautiful bill turned
into an actual law was positive. I think
he's going to take another cut at this.
And the problem is I think for markets
it it's we're not going to get a quick
reaction. We might not even get reaction
after August 1st assuming the tariffs go
in because last time the tariffs were
actually in I believe for you know some
number of hours before they pulled back.
So I think this could drag on. I think
it's going to be more of a slow bleed.
Unfortunately,
>> there's a larger question here. Is this
just the market saying, "Look, we've
been fooled before. What are you doing?
We're not going to buy into these rates
actually going through or is this a
market saying, "We've seen how companies
absorb these tariffs and it isn't going
to be as big of a hit as many people
initially thought."
>> I think it's the former. I think people
are just like, "We got fooled by this.
We all got panicked. We all believed the
Main Street versus Wall Street, the
rhetoric that was coming out of the
administration that they would go
forward." I think when you start seeing
this one, it's too early to expect much
of a hit onto Wall Street, right? At
even at 10%, one companies had a lot of
ability to pre-order stuff that helped
take care of it. You've seen a lot of
USMCA goods get compliant, um, you know,
approved as USMCA compliant. That's
reduced effective tariffs. And you look
at the tariff revenue, I think it's
about 80 billion over the last 3 months.
That's a drop in the bucket in terms of
inflation or anything. So, I think we
will not start seeing the inflation
effects or the impact on corporate
earnings until a few more months down
the road,
>> which is the reason why we've been
talking about how pivotal this week is.
How much are you concerned about it
being a head fake if we don't see the
real ramifications from tariffs either
in consumer inflation or in uh bank
earnings in particular?
>> You know, I'm not as worried about the
earnings. What I'm looking for a little
bit is what are people seeing globally?
What's the global economy looking like?
We talked so much about the domestic
economy. What's it like? What's spending
going on? And are any of the US brands
seeing a pullback in spending? That to
me is one thing. We've seen it in
tourism. Is it more widespread? Because
that would be a bigger concern to me
that you're starting to see this kind of
pulling away from American brands, which
would be very consistent now with what
you're reporting this morning that other
countries are trying to figure out,
okay, what trade deals can we do away
from the US.
>> So what do you like then in this moment
if you don't think the president is just
in negotiating mode and potentially some
of these rates can stay? So, I still
like anything that's really involved
around national security, national
production, right? And I think last week
we saw MP um ticker symbol got an
investment from the Department of
Defense. It was a little bit ad hoc that
the Department of Defense had that
money, but maybe we start seeing the
sovereign wealth funds, you know, that
we talked about at the start of the
administration start turning into
something where you start seeing
investment where the US public actually
gets to take advantage of the growth. We
have to have rare earth and critical
minerals and not just the comm the
process and refined versions of those.
We need chips. We need pharma. All those
things. I think that's where I want to
focus cuz the president could juggle two
things, right? Push hard on tariffs on
the one side, domestic growth, and those
things do take away jobs from China.
They bring jobs to the US. So, they fit
a lot of agendas. A lot of it
deregulation, which again is right up
the president's alley. So, that to me is
a positive that we last week in that uh
investment by Department of Defense is
just the tip of the iceberg.
>> So, you think the 50% tariffs on copper
is good and it stays?
>> I don't know that it's good at all. Um,
again, it's something we import a lot of
and we need to and we're not going to be
able to turn it back. But yeah, I think
he stays. I think he tries to grow some
domestic businesses around that. Um, but
it's going to come through investments.
It's not going to come out through
handouts or subsidies.
>> Quick final word on CPI tomorrow
morning. We've had a string of softer
than expected reads. Do we get a fifth
tomorrow morning?
>> I don't think so. I think we've kind of
bottomed out on it for a little while. I
think there's been some pressure on, you
know, through some of what's been going
on the USMCA. I think people push some
prices through. So I don't think I'm not
alarmed but I don't think we get a you
know a good number.
>> You're going to stick with us. Need some
comments on Fed Chair Jay Pound and his
future a little bit later in the
program. Peter Sheriff Academy there.
Sticking with us through the next
segment. If you are just joining us once
again equity futures, no drama here
whatsoever. Only down by a third of 1%
on the S&P. Expecting some action in the
bond market. You're getting it in Japan,
not states side here in New York City by
just a basis point across the long end
of the curve. with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara Arnard. Hey, Yhara.
>> Good morning, John. President Trump
declaring a 30% tariff rate for Mexico
and the EU. The new rates are set to
take effect on August 1st. EU Commission
President Ursula Vanderline is responded
saying they are working towards an
agreement but are prepared to use
counter measures while the Mexico while
Mexico's economy minister called the new
levies unjust.
Meanwhile, President Trump and his
allies are ramping up pressure on Fed
Chair Jay Powell. In addition to
criticizing Powell for not cutting
rates, they're now focusing on his
handling of the renovation of Fed
headquarters. The Fed says the
renovations are designed to reduce costs
by consolidating its operations, but
critics are focusing on what they call
extravagant design features. And Nvidia
CEO Jensen Wong says the US government
doesn't need to worry about the Chinese
military using US technology. Wong told
CNN that China will avoid the technology
because it may be limited by the US at
any time. Chinese military adoption is
one of the key concerns Washington has
raised as it ramps up restrictions on
chip exports. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. More from Yhira later
in the hour. Up next on the program, a
new line of attack on the Fed chair. The
bottom line is that this is the most
expensive project in DC history. $2.5
billion with a $700 billion cost
overrun. So the Fed has a lot to answer
for.
>> We heard that on repeat over the
weekend. Fed chair J Pal's Fed very much
in the crosshairs. That conversation up
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equity
futures doing okay, down by 0.3% on the
S&P 500. The upgrades, the price targets
keep coming. Lori Cavina of RBC now
looking for 6250. That's up from 5730.
follows similar moves from Bank of
America, from Goldman, HSBC, and Mass
Canada just last week. Two words, buy
more. The NASDAQ's down by about a third
of 1% at the moment, even with the
additional tariff threats and this under
Savannah this morning, a new line of
attack on the Fed share.
>> I think if Jerome Powell stepped down,
it would be a great thing. We should
have the lowest interest rate on Earth,
and we don't. Uh he just refuses to do
it. And yet he's spending $2.5 billion
dollars rebuilding the Fed.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump and his allies
zeroing in on Fed chair JPL's handling
of the renovations of the Federal
Reserve's headquarters. Administration
officials building a case to possibly
fire him.
>> The bottom line is that this is the most
expensive project in DC history. $2.5
billion with a $700 billion cost
overrun. To put that in perspective, the
cost overrun for this Federal Reserve
project is about the same size as the
second biggest uh building overhaul in
American history, which was the FBI
building. And so the Fed has a lot to
answer for.
>> Hit the chair. The Fed has a lot to
answer for. Where's this one going?
>> I have no idea. It does feel politically
that he's going to be under a lot of
pressure in the coming days, weeks, you
know, and I do think he probably should
have cut rates or be on the pace. I we
should be cutting in July. I think I
don't like the jobs data. So, I don't
agree with all this policy, but I think
pushing him out and this pressure,
markets aren't going to like it. The
world's not going to like it. So, I I
don't love that strategy.
>> What do you think the cost is? What's
the price of firing the Fed chair? Not
saying it will happen if it happens.
What is the cost? And is it so high that
it prevents it from happening?
>> You know, unfortunately, not
fortunately, I I don't think it's going
to be that high. Front end yields
probably go down, right? Because
whoever's going to come in is probably
going to implement cutting. You see
yields go higher maybe at the back end,
but how much can you twos go out? So, I
think it's actually going to be a muted
reaction. I think there there's a lot of
fear that we're going to blow up the
Treasury market. I just don't think that
happens right away.
>> And part of the reason why is because
people say there's a whole committee
full of Fed members that all have a
vote. And yet Kevin Worsh, who
previously was on uh the Fed board of
governors came out and said, "We need
regime change. We need an overhaul." And
started talking about the strategic
shift that he would like to see at the
Federal Reserve. How realistic, how
feasible is that? You know, I've often
wondered for the last, you know, decade
why we don't have more behavioral
economists on the Fed, right? We have
the traditional macroeconomists and yet
when you look at the Nobel prizes, you
know, they're going out to the
behavioral. So, I I think a shakeup and
kind of some different thinking wouldn't
be a bad idea. Again, I'm not sure that
it should be done in this kind of, you
know, very quick and rough way. But I I
think there are things how do we think
about the world? How do people respond?
I think a lot of traditional
macroeconomics has failed us and we've
kind of missed the GFC. we miss European
debt crisis. So bringing some new types
of thinking might not be a bad idea.
>> There are two things that uh you're sort
of alluding to here. And one is the
fundamental economic justification for
both a rate cut and a rethink of some of
the economic modeling on the Fed. The
other is the political job boning that
leaves people concerned about a Turkey
situation Erdogan like pressure talking
about what happened with Arthur Burns
that led to the highest pace of
inflation that we've seen in modern
history in the United States. So, how do
you distinguish between the two? And
does this kind of pressure make it less
likely that they can cut in a way that
might be appropriate economically?
>> So, I would have said before this
weekend, I felt they would be pressured
not to cut because they didn't want to
be bowing to this. But it does seem like
this is a whole new line of attack.
They're kind of going down different
avenues to get that sort of change. And
if that happens, then I think we do get
cuts very quickly because whoever comes
in will try and say, "Well, this has to
be our mandate."
It's probably the most confusing I've
ever had because we've never I think had
to figure out the political
ramifications of the Fed in such a way.
>> Kevin Hasset was asked about this over
the weekend. He says they're being
looked into whether or not if there's
cause he could be fired, but this would
be about issues regarding renovations at
the Fed. Does it matter to the markets
what the potential issue is that they
think they have a legal standing to fire
the Fed chair? I I think it does make a
difference and I do think one thing
Powell was very successful independently
before he joined the Fed. So I think he
probably has a lot more stomach to fight
this than someone who didn't have you
know his own personal wealth isn't
coming into this job very strong. I
think he is very committed to what he's
doing. So you know I I I find he will
not go down easily.
>> If he's not going to go down easily then
do you think he sticks around to finish
out his governorship to 2028?
>> I think that's such a long way away in
this environment right now. It's like we
have trouble living week to week.
>> Right. But he won't tell Trump
administration officials. He won't tell
reporters. He's repeatedly asked about
this and doesn't give an answer. I
>> think there's no reason for him to give
an answer. Why make it easy on anyone?
It's kind of a little bit of leverage.
Maybe it's what makes him happy when
he's, you know, fighting with this. So I
I feel it's all a bit of a sideshow to
what we should be looking at and that's
not good. The price of this now you said
it wouldn't be that high. George
Saravella said it's 30 to 40 basis
points in a fixed income selloff in the
following 24 hours. For the FX market,
it could mean a three to four percent
move in the trade weighted dollar. Lisa
brought up the experience in Turkey. If
you go back to spring of 2021 when
Erdahan fel fired his then central bank
governor. I think the following day we
had an 8% move on the Turkish lera. Are
you not expecting anything like that in
the following 24 hours?
>> I think it'll be hard. Like you want to
sell off. I think that I agree on the
FX. I think it's going to push people
away from the, you know, dollar. I think
that makes sense to me. But why would T
bill sell off a lot, right? Clearly,
you're going to get someone coming in
and I think that will anchor the curve a
little bit. I think maybe you get this
>> anchor the front end. Tell me what
happens further out along the curve. I'm
not interested in the front end. I don't
know what happens to tens and 30s.
>> Maybe it widens a little bit. I don't
see a 30 to 40 bip. I would not be
surprised to see markets actually remain
more calm than all the hype
unfortunately. I think that gives the
whole ammunition, but I think there's
just so much more going on than the Fed
share. Now, if we believe that someone's
going to come in and cut 100 bips
immediately and get us down to 2%,
that's a different story. But I think if
you think someone's going to cut 50 and
try and get down 100 bips by, you know,
September, do we really sell off that
much? Like that's kind of more in the
ballpark what I think the Fed should be
doing anyway. So I'm not going to react
that negatively.
>> Are we setting though a precedent that
becomes dangerous for the bond market
going forward? And I say this not just
from the US perspective, but globally at
a time when you see all the long bonds
around the world and developed markets
selling off in the prospect of more
spending and politicians that don't want
to have to raise taxes or cut spending
in order to uh reduce the deficit. Isn't
this a fundamental problem that
increasingly politicians will just
jawbone their central banks as opposed
to actually taking the pain?
>> Yeah. And I think it's like a lot of
things. We've had executive orders
skyrocket over the last 20 years.
Everything's kind of being done a little
bit backdoor, maybe not quite by the
official channels. So I think those are
all risks. One thing I keep, you know,
we've been arguing to our customers
probably for three years now. You're
supposed to be if you're investing in
one year in paper, heavily heavily
heavily overweighted towards corporate
debt, commercial paper because
corporations actually have good
governance, right? corporations that are
there to make sure their bills are paid
on time. So, I would be overweight. I
think you're getting that excess spread
and I think there's going to be more and
more conversation about what should one
of these top companies trade versus the
US dollar or sorry, versus T bills. I
don't think
>> I don't think we're there at this point,
but I could see us approaching that,
right? It's happened in some, you know,
third world EM countries in the past for
a variety of reasons. We're not there,
but I think you're getting free spread
almost when you look at some of these
double A, AAA, even single A companies
or issuing commercial paper. I would own
that all day long instead of T bills. I
think it's less hassle.
>> Peter, if you don't think there's going
to be a massive implication to the
markets if they fire Fed Chair J Pal,
what's what's holding them back then
from doing it?
>> I assume there's legalities and how to
do it, whether they're allowed to do it.
I'm sure that's being worked on it.
>> Pete, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by. Peter there of
academy on a big situation with the
Federal Reserve potentially and the
latest tariff threats. Just on the
Federal Reserve, Pete kind of alluded to
this. What's important here, of course,
not just whether he's fired or not, who
replaces him. If it would be someone
super credible inside the FOMC, say a
Governor Waller for instance, maybe
there would be a level of comfort there.
Perhaps we should acknowledge, but I
have to say the base case, the
overwhelming consensus for you right
now. If you get rid of the Fed chair,
you'd see some fireworks in financial
markets,
>> especially given the fact that you have
auditioning going on right now and
people are trying to out hawk each other
with respect to how quickly they're
going to fire uh Chair Powell and
outdates
and potentially replace other Fed
members. I mean, I thought that was
really notable. Kevin Walsh amping up
his rhetoric maybe to get the front seat
when it comes to replacing Jay Powell.
Well, the two Kevin's first in line to
replace him, the ones who were piling on
the pressure over the weekend.
>> And it's as if one of them was trying to
one up the other one in terms of, you
know, he is making a versai as uh as we
were just talking about and the
potential for replacing other Fed
members really uh raising the pressure
significantly.
>> Certainly not the base case this morning
with futures down by about a third of 1%
on the S&P. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with the former senior
White House trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw
on President Trump's latest tariff
threats. Plus Yhierra Island with your
morning movers. Craft high shares rising
as the company weighs a break up. That
stock is up by 1.7%. From New York,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Where did the weekend go? Trump time.
Weekends just don't seem to happen, do
they? Equity futures right now in the
S&P negative by a third of 1%. We're
down by a similar amount on the NASDAQ
100. Just missed out on a third week of
gains on the S&P 500 last week going
into a big one in the next 24 hours. CPI
just around the corner and lots of bank
earnings for you. With 3 hours until the
opening bell, let's get you some morning
movers with Yahara Arnand. Hey yhara.
>> Good morning John. We start with Craft
High. Shares are up 1.7%,
adding to Friday's gains after reports
surfaced that the food giant is
preparing to break itself up. The
packaged food company is said to be
weighing a spin-off of its grocery
business in order for it to focus on
other faster growing areas like its
sauces. We've talked a lot about deals
or possible deals in the in the packaged
food space lately. We had Ferrero buying
WK Kalanova last week. So, this is the
next big one to watch. Meanwhile, we
take a look at CryptoLink stocks all
rising, riding Bitcoin's latest move
higher. Micro Strategy and Coinbase are
among the stocks getting a bid here as
Bitcoin source to record highs,
breaching $122,000
this morning. This is coming as the US
House of Representatives gears up for
what it's calling crypto week, where it
plans to take on legislation in crypto.
And last up, we end on the automakers.
They are all weaker this morning on
fresh tariff uncertainty by President
Trump, but I want to highlight General
Motors, which is down 1.6%. It confirmed
a Reuters report that it's pausing
production for weeks at one of its key
plants in Mexico that sells its top
selling Silverado and Sierra trucks. And
while it's normal for automakers to halt
work at factories due to maintenance,
Reuters does point out that weeks of
downtime at a key plant like this one is
unusual. John
>> Yhara, thank you. A little bit more from
Yhara later on this hour in about 15
minutes or so. On our radar this
morning, our top story, President Donald
Trump announcing a 30% tariff on goods
from the EU and Mexico set to take
effect on August 1st. Trump then saying
if the countries retaliate with higher
tariffs, he'll add another 30%. And this
should come as a shock to people given
the fact that he had talked about
potentially getting a deal done with the
European Union. There had been much
better mude music mud music around uh
Mexico. It raises a question. Is this
just trying to ramp up some of the
pressure to get a better deal? Is this
the actual rate? And when will the
market wake up to this or has it already
given the fact that you haven't seen the
ramifications of profit margin
contraction yet or necessarily in the
CPI prints? The NEC director Kevin
Hassid basically signaled that at this
moment they are negotiating even in the
president's own letter. He said if you
open up your markets we will then amend
the tariff rate with the European Union
my head is spinning 20% on April 2nd
ratchet up to 50%. Now we're back to
30%. In the middle of them having
negotiations with they say every single
day. What I think is more interesting
about this story right now coming out of
Brussels is the other capitals they're
calling to try to get other trading
partners in line with them to then go to
the White House. Japan, Canada, others
in Southeast Asia to say we should
approach Washington together as a
collective group.
>> I want to live in Ed Bastian's world
over at Doutter Airlines where things
are stable and everyone has clarity to
invest in the future. That's a very
interesting world he's living in.
>> Well, you should go to the seauite
because they cannot survive on headline
roulette and that's what you're seeing.
A lot of them are just taking a pretty
steady look. Consumers are still
spending and you know what the truth is?
We're all a little exhausted from
headline roulette and so a lot of
consumers are saying we got to look past
it and live our lives. Let's go on
vacation. The kids are off school. So,
you know, we'll deal with all this stuff
later. And I do think there is an
element of exhaustion. What was it that
you said a couple weeks ago? Is this the
strategy? Just exhaust your trading
partners until they're like whatever.
And you want that.
>> I'll take the 10 15%. Let's move on. I
think it was Kellyanne Shaw last week
who said, "Grab a beer. Ignore the next
two weeks."
>> Amen.
>> She's going to join us in about 5
minutes time. Hopefully, he hasn't been
drinking beers this morning. We'll come
back to that in a moment. President
Trump ramping up criticism of Fed Chair
Jay Pal, saying he hopes Pal should quit
his role. Trump is joined by the NEC
director Kevin Hassid and the former Fed
governor Kevin Walsh and calling for
change. It was the two Kevins. It was
the vice president of the United States.
It came from all corners over the
weekend
>> in this Alice in Wonderland land. A lot
of people are wondering what the
political im implications of this are.
Is it just the Kevin's auditioning? Is
this Trump trying to set up an fantastic
scapegoat? Is this trying to pressure
the Fed to cut rates more significantly?
or is this a serious look by the
administration to truly oust the head of
the Fed at a time where they have been
highly critical of the unwillingness to
cut rates. Look, I don't know that the
market is really taking this as reality
because right now I agree with you,
John, and I agree with George
Saravellos. It does seem like there
would be a much more significant
reaction in the dollar and in the long
end of the yield curve akin to what we
saw last year. Well, what's the reaction
even if they put someone in place that
the market doesn't seem credible? And
Jonathan, you've been asking this
question every single day. Neil Dutter
over the weekend said, "For all the talk
of Fat Shadow Fed chair, if either
Hasset or Walsh get the nod at the rate
they are going, they may well end up
being a quote chairman in name only." So
basically not sure of all of this public
auditioning to the extreme is
potentially going to help them if they
were to get jobs.
>> Given the threats over the weekend, not
seeing much price action whatsoever.
Stay side. Yields are higher by a basis
point or two. If you want to see a big
move in a bond market, check out Japan
overnight. Global debt markets very much
on alert given developments in the
Japanese debt market. Yields higher
across the curve there on a 30-year up
by some 11 basis points going into this
election in the next few weeks. The real
risk of more spending and higher bond
yields.
>> Look, this is the uncomfortable truth
and it's happening around the globe. It
is that politicians do not want to cut
spending and they do not want to
increase taxes. And right now the
political party that is winning in Japan
is one that is promising more spending
while not necessarily increasing taxes
in fact by cutting taxes. And this is
really a question that is increasingly
relevant given that President Trump is
pushing a lot of the trade partners to
increase spending on defense to increase
infrastructure spending of their own. So
all of a sudden they have to borrow more
and nobody wants to say we're going to
take something away from you. And that
is what the bond market is getting
nervous about. The fact is coming out of
Japan makes everyone that more nervous.
We've had 25 years of this being a
dominant anchor around the neck of the
global debt market holding yields lower.
That's being released being released in
a way we haven't seen for a long time.
>> So does this set the bar a lot higher?
It's notable that US long yields are not
rising that much. They're not rising
nearly as much as what you're seeing in
Germany with a similar type of dynamic.
It just goes to underscore a bond market
getting yippy is not just a US issue and
whether it continues with yields
permanently at a higher pace as
collectively the market is dealing with
a lot of debt from developed markets and
really not a plan to pay it back.
>> No yips in the Treasury market at least
so far this morning. Let's turn back to
trade. The EU stepping up engagement
with countries hit by US tariffs
following President Donald Trump's
announcement of 30% levy set to begin on
August 1st. The former senior White
House trade adviser, Kellyanne Shaw,
writing, "The president believes he
still has a long leash when it comes to
tariffs. For countries that don't have
deals by August 1st, I do expect tariffs
to go up." Kellyanne joins us now for
more. Kellyanne, welcome back to the
program. I think you told us all to get
a beer and take a break last time and
then everyone gets fired up after the
announcements over the weekend. How
seriously are you taking some of the
threats this past weekend?
>> Yeah, good morning. And I think I have
the same advice today that I had last
week in that, you know, this is not for
us. This is not for business. These
tactics are really for other
governments. And I think that director
Hasset said it well on Sunday when he
said the president was trying to squeeze
every last drop out of some of these
deals. So that to me is really what
these letters are about. I'm still
relatively optimistic will land
somewhere with the European Union. Um
the Mexico letter was a bit of a
surprise to me given that they weren't
negotiating one of these full reciprocal
deals. it was really about steel and
aluminum. But that said, we've got two
and a half weeks to go and I expect to
see a bunch of deals and for those
countries that don't have them, I expect
to see those tariff rates go up.
>> When you say you do think this is the
president trying to squeeze every lance
ounce out of these trade negotiations,
say it comes to the European Union, what
is he after?
>> Well, with the European Union, there are
a number of sticking points. And I think
everyone's expectation is that if the US
and EU were able were going to be in a
position to agree that it would be to
basically a subset of issues and not
every irritant, but I had been hearing
some consternation about agriculture in
particular and some frustration on the
US side that the EU wasn't willing to
cut some of the more sensitive tariff
rates and then a lot of disagreement
over those section 232 carveouts and
what those might look like on auto,
steel, pharma, semiconductors and then
of course the The president has long
talked about Europe, Europe's treatment
of US tech firms and from state aid to
the DMA and DSA. And so those are going
to continue to be uh difficult points
between the US and the European Union.
>> The European Union, we have a story, is
preparing to step up engagement with
other countries, potentially approach
the United States with other allies. Do
you think that tactic could work with
this administration?
I I mean I think it is a a unique
administration uh who negotiates in ways
that are not typical uh in terms of
diplomatic relations. So why not why not
come to the United States as a block and
say uh here is a potential solution and
a potential way forward because what is
clear from President Trump's tactic in
terms of taking the sledgehammer to the
global trading system and negotiating
bilaterally with every government on
earth is that the current global trading
system the world trade organization that
is 166 member countries just doesn't
work and so if there are a subset of
countries who want to join together and
approach the United states. I think the
administration could be open to that.
>> Kellyanian, you said a key word there,
tactic. And this is what the market is
viewing all of this as, at least in
terms of the muted reaction that we're
seeing this morning, a tactic to
negotiate a better deal. Is this
negotiating with the trade partners or
is this negotiating with the market?
I I think it's predominantly negotiating
with the trading partners, but I do
think that the market is playing a role.
And right now, the fact that the market
hasn't reacted as significantly as it
did in the aftermath of April 2nd,
coupled with low inflation, positive job
reports, and overall good economic
indicators, I think does embolden the
president and gives him a longer leash
on his tariff strategy. Now, if the
markets were to totally go the other
way, I do think that that might have a
bit of a mitigating impact on some of
these tariffs. But I I think the market
is reading the situation exactly right,
which is the president is sending these
letters out, announcing these high
tariff rates in the hopes of actually
getting deals so that he won't have to
impose those tariffs.
>> So, Kellyanne, that's where I think
there is some confusion. What is the
tariff strategy? Is it to get deals that
are specific and have certain parameters
or is it just to see how far someone can
push before you get revenues on the
tariff side and markets don't freak out?
Yeah, I I think it can be a little bit
of both. I mean certainly the pressing
task right now is to create this action
forcing event that by August 1st these
tariff rates will be exceptionally high
unless countries are able to get a deal.
I think that's really first and foremost
on the president's mind. But the second
line of messaging that we're hearing is
about this revenue and the fact that the
tariffs have been good for the US
economy, that prices haven't gone up and
we're going to use it to pay for some of
these tax cuts. I think that's about
softening the message on tariffs so that
for countries that don't get deals, it's
not viewed as catastrophic, the sky is
falling, that there might be some
positive benefit there. But I do think
at the end of the day, it would be best
case scenario for everyone involved um
to find some sort of landing zone in
terms of these bilateral negotiations
with countries and to see a bunch of
deals get inked and see those tariff and
non-tariff barriers come down.
>> Kellyanne, appreciate the update, the
catch up. Thank you. The former senior
White House trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw
there on the latest. Just to build on
what Kellyanne was saying, it's not just
the market given them the green light at
the moment. So far, and I stress so far,
things can change, but it's the economy
as well. The economy hasn't changed too
much in the past few months,
>> which is the reason why this is a
pivotal week. We get the latest read and
people say that in the June CPI and PPI
will have a better sense of just how
much those tariffs did cause in prices
to go up and you've got earnings. You
can see how much that hit corporate
profits. Right now, they might have a
green light going forward. I think the
key question is people might agree with
the ultimate goal, but the strategy
that's being used leaves people trying
to understand what the framework is
because it keeps shifting. That last
point though from Kelly and Shaw really
shows the branding of this
administration. If they get a deal,
great. They can have a Rose Garden or
Oval Office event like they had with the
United Kingdom and I was there for that
one. If they don't, then they come out
and say, "Well, look at all the revenue
we're bringing in and this is going to
help bring down our deficit and offset
the tax and spending bill that we just
got through Congress."
>> And there's a lot of revenue coming in.
Let's be clear about that. In the bond
market at the moment, yields are a
little bit higher at the long end of the
curve by a basis point or two. in the
equity market down by only a third of 1%
on the S&P with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara Arnand. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Trump says the US
will send more Patriot air defense
batteries to Ukraine. Ke has said it
needs the aid to protect itself from
Russian air strikes. The move comes
before Trump is expected to make what he
what he's calling a major statement on
Russia later today. Meanwhile, former
President Joe Biden is pushing back on
President Trump's claims about his
mental acuity while he was in office. In
an interview with the New York Times,
Biden said he made all the clemency
decisions that were recorded with an
autopen and that he orally granted all
pardons and commutations issued at the
end of his term. Now, on to the latest
on the flood disaster in Texas. The
search for victims is expected to resume
today along the Guadalupe River after
recovery efforts had to be put on hold
yesterday after another round of heavy
rains. More than 160 people may still be
missing after the July 4th floods that
left at least 132 people dead. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> tragic. Yhara, thank you. More from
Yahara in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, bracing for tariff
impact. The
>> president is getting the message loud
and clear. the economy can absorb a lot
of these high tariff levels without a
huge downturn and I think that means
he's going to keep going.
>> Joining us next Leo Fella of Numerator
live from New York City. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
A lot of threats over the weekend on two
fronts. Trade and central bank
independence. And this market doesn't
blink. Equity futures on the S&P down by
a third of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 down by
a similar amount. Under surveillance
this morning, we're bracing for tariff
impact. The
>> president is getting the message loud
and clear. the economy can absorb a lot
uh these high tariff levels without a
huge downturn and I think that means
he's going to keep going. They're
working in that the president can put
them in place without any negative
consequences and the economy is doing
great. This is a rebalancing of stuff
that was broken in the US economy for
decades. So here's the latest this
morning. Investors awaiting inflation
data for a read on how tariffs are
impacting the economy. Leo Fellow of
Numerator, a research firm focused on
the consumer, writes the following. We
still don't expect to see much of an
effect of tariffs in the CPI. This
doesn't mean that we're in the all
clear. Leo joins us now for more. Leo,
good morning.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> We've had four softer than expected
prints, four in a row. A nice string, a
nice run of things. And a lot of people
came on the program and said, "This is
not signal. This is noise. Wait until
the summer. Summer's arrived. Does it
change?"
>> I think it will start changing, but
very, very, very slowly. Right. One of
the things that we saw coming out of the
pandemic inflation starting in 2021 is
that it took about 14 to 16 months for
inflation to peak between when consumers
went out and started spending all their
pent-up savings uh after we had the mass
vaccinations until we got peak
inflation. 14 to 16 months is a long
time, right? We're only about 3 and a
half months out of the initial tariff
announcements that were then paused.
Right? It's still too early for us to
really to to start to see a wave of
inflation. we might start to see a small
trickle of inflation showing up in the
data.
>> If that's the appropriate time frame to
think about things, just describe
through an industry, a sector, how this
could cascade through the economy in the
next 18 months.
>> Yeah. So, one of the reasons that we
haven't seen the tariff impact yet is
that a lot of manufacturers have
contracts with their suppliers, right?
So, their suppliers can't pass on higher
aluminum prices quite yet, right?
They're locked in or they have hedges
that protect them from these higher uh
input costs, right? Then a lot of the
suppliers have contracts or
manufacturers have contracts with
retailers that prevent them from passing
on prices to retailers. Once these
contracts start resetting, right, which
takes about 6 months, then we should
start seeing higher uh inflation prints
in the CPI. And the last thing to keep
in mind is that uh one of the the CEOs
that I spoke with said we have one bite
at the apple, right? We can't walk into
a retailer and say we are increasing
prices, right, by 10% or 20%. And then a
few weeks later say, oh, never mind,
right? tariffs aren't as high as we
thought they were going to be. We're
going to, you know, raise it by
something else. Oh, never mind. They're
now actually much higher. We're going to
raise it by something else, right? And
so, it takes time for all of this to
first develop more certainty, right? And
then for suppliers, manufacturers, and
retailers to start reacting and passing
on these prices to consumers.
>> The chain of events that you're
describing is incredibly important to
hear uh because there are some people
saying you're either going to see it in
CPI or you're going to see it in
consumer in company earnings. you're
going to see it in profit margins
getting compressed. What you're pointing
to is something else. There is a lot of
other venues that are offloading some of
the uh tariffs for now, but that
potentially will not be there going
forward. Can you talk about what percent
of the tariffs are getting offloaded by
just contracts that are forcing onto
suppliers that aren't going to take it
once those contracts are up? Yeah, I
think it's most of the tariffs right now
are actually being absorbed by
suppliers, right? And not being passed
on because, you know, they're they're
simply locked into contracts that don't
allow that to happen, right? And the
other piece is that uh a lot of
suppliers built up inventory and
anticipation. We saw we're seeing this
with copper right now, right? With, you
know, uh suppliers up frontloading a lot
of the supply of copper that they might
need going forward. And so this is one
of the reasons that I think almost none
of this has really had a reason to be
passed on to uh manufacturers and then
on to consumers because it's in such
early stages that it's not overall
impacting uh you know even uh profit
margins yet for for manufacturers.
>> One argument for why this won't be quite
as inflationary as some people expect is
from consumer push back. They're sick of
getting tariffed. They're sick of not
necessarily tariffed. sick of inflation
going up and really uh you know eating
into their real incomes. Do you think
that they have more capacity to absorb
price increases than many people
believe?
>> You're absolutely right. So this is very
different than coming out of the
pandemic, right? Coming out of the
pandemic, there was so much pent-up
savings, right? There was so much
pent-up demand that consumers basically
shrugged off the higher prices and went
out and started spending anyway. And
that's gone, right? There is no excess
pent-up savings uh that exists today for
consumers to use as a buffer. So
consumers are actually being a lot more
discerning and we're seeing this with uh
a greater focus on private label items,
right? Shifting towards lowerc cost
retailers. Um we're also seeing it in
consumers doing a lot more research,
right? We just came out of Amazon Prime
Day and one of the things that we saw in
the numerator data is that you know even
for things like uh paper plates,
consumers were looking at Amazon, but
they were also looking at Walmart and
Target to see where they could get
better prices for paper plates, right?
Like this actually takes a lot of time
for consumers to be able to research
where to get the best prices. And the
fact that that consumers are actually
using this time, right, putting in the
investment to figure out how to save a
marginal dollar here or there just
signals that, you know, companies are
not going to have the pricing power that
they had coming out of the pandemic.
>> But at the moment, they are still
spending. And you say when it comes to
retailers or any sort of company,
they're waiting to take that one bite
out of the apple. How do they decide
when to sink their teeth in?
I I think this is a really difficult,
you know, question because first they're
going to be timed into contracts, right?
And so they have to take it when there's
a moment that they have a window to
renegotiate with or to negotiate with
their their retail partners. Um and then
they're waiting for more clarity, right?
What is the final tariff? Now, one of
the things that I've heard from uh from
one of the companies that I work with uh
is that they have set tariff uh pricing
triggers into their contracts, right? So
since they don't know what tariffs are
going to be, they have various scenarios
with their retail partner that says,
"Look, if tariffs are X, we are going to
raise prices by this amount. If tariffs
are Y, we're going to raise prices by
this other amount." And that's already
baked into a contract. It's going to be
right for, you know, September onwards.
And so it even should not show up yet,
you know, at this point in the data.
>> Well, April 2nd became July 9th,
becoming August 1st. This timeline can
be extended. We don't know how long. But
many people think Trump can be in
negotiating mode for more than just two
and a half weeks.
>> But the tariffs are already hitting,
right? So we're now at a 15% effective
tariff rate. And if you look at, you
know, this year so far relative to last
year, we've collected about 50 billion
more dollars in tariff revenue. If that
were to be passed on to consumers, which
it hasn't yet, right? That would be
another $400 or so per household that
they're spending so far this year.
Right? Not an astronomical amount yet,
right? Estimates from the old budget lab
say that if this is going to get passed
on to consumers, it might be an extra
4,000 or so, you know, per year that
consumers are paying in higher prices
for consumer products, right? It hasn't
really to start started showing up in a
way that would really suggest the
consumer is truly feeling this, but I
expect that to start happening uh once
we get into back to school season and
probably Christmas.
>> One missing piece in this whole
conversation, just a final question from
me. How much success are the companies
that you speak to? How much success are
they having putting the pressure on the
exporter to drop prices?
>> The exporter has barely dropped prices
because we can actually look at the data
and look at the prices before tariffs
are implemented. And those price levels
are the highest that they have been.
Right? So, we're not seeing this come
down at all. And part of that might also
be, right, maybe they are reducing
prices a little bit, but don't forget
the dollar has lost about 10% of its
value, right? And so even if they've
dropped their prices by effectively 10%.
The rising, you know, the decline of the
dollar means that import prices are
about 10% higher. On top of that, you're
adding tariffs, right? So this is a
really, you know, the effective tariff
rate at 15% plus a 10% decline roughly
in the value of the dollar means that we
should expect about 25% higher import
prices. The FX move has compounded the
problem. We've seen that all year. And
frankly, some people will say that it'll
be felt in the CPI coming up on Tuesday.
>> Leo, this was great. It's good to see
you. Thoughtful stuff. Thank you. Thank
you very much. Leo Fellow there of
numerator. Up next on the program, Tom
Becker of Black Rockck, Henry Trace of
Vader Partners, VTO Speduto of RBC
Capital Markets, and John Navalo of UBS
from New York. The second era of
Bloomberg Surveillance. Up next,
the president is getting the message
loud and clear. The economy can absorb a
lot of these high tariff levels without
a huge downturn.
>> The US economy is likely somewhat bigger
than policy until you get to a certain
level.
>> We'll see the low-end consumer continue
to remain fairly sluggish, but the rest
of the economy should be okay. You've
got a little bit of a disconnect and
it's kind of a tale of two cities.
>> You have the ability to adjust quicker
than people think. And this is really
what sets the US economy largely apart.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, your second hour of
Bloomberg surveyed starts right now. And
your price action looks like this.
Segary futures on the S&P 500 negative
only slightly by a third of 1% on the
NASDAQ 100 down by 0.3% also and a
similar move on the Russell 2000.
Following a weekend full of threats,
this market still isn't blinking and
going into a week full of event risk.
We've got bank earnings on deck and CPI
tomorrow morning. This is a market
hoping for a compass at a time when some
of the policy discussions have felt a
little bit I don't want to say
rudderless but lack of clarity has
certainly been a theme this week we'll
get maybe a little bit more clarity
although that will be debatable in terms
of what type of solidification we get in
CPI how much consumer prices do go up on
the heels of tariffs and then how much
companies are absorbing it or can they
just keep adjusting and adapting and
moving forward the way that a lot of
people are pricing in
>> never mind companies how are countries
going to respond to all of this over the
weekend a threat of a 30% tariff on the
EU. You've got three choices. You can
negotiate, you can retaliate, or you can
coordinate with trade partners. An extra
lane being added over the weekend.
>> Yeah, over the weekend what we heard is
this potentially third scenario that
Brussels is working out having some
calls maybe with Japan, Canada, India
trying to coales with other trading
partners to then confront the United
States as a more united front. Will this
work is the key question. Especially
when you have the Treasury Secretary
going over to Japan at the end of the
week and the president himself and his
team in negotiations with some of these
other countries like Mexico. Their
economy minister basically is back and
forth between Mexico City and
Washington. But it also could be used
from Brussels as a threat. Look, if
you're not going to lower the rate from
now it's 30% went to 20 to 50 to 30,
then potentially we are going to do our
best to go after all these other
capitals and try to make your life more
difficult. Lots of trade threats. We're
ignoring them. Lots of threats on
Chairman Pal. We're ignoring them. That
was seriously a fullcourt press over the
weekend. Kevin Walsh, Kevin Hassid, the
vice president of the United States,
putting the pressure on the Fed chair
>> and shifting the tone of exactly how
they were going to fire him, painting a
path to actually have the legal standing
to do so for cause because of
renovations that they say were
excessive. They went up when they
initially started. The estimates went
from $ 1.9 billion to currently $2.4
billion. There has been an increase.
There's a big back and forth. A real
question here, it depends who they put
in Jay Powell's seat and whether they
touch the composition of the rest of the
Fed's seats. Can they do that? Can
Congress push back? French Hill, a
Republican from Arkansas, over the
weekend said, "Look, this is Congress's
job. We're going to have more strict
oversight, but they don't have the power
to do this."
>> Bon high basis point on a 10 year. You'd
have no idea any of this was going on on
a 30-year up by two basis points. The
fireworks are in Japan once again. We've
got to track that story. The Japanese
government bond market kind of breaking
down very slowly but breaking down.
>> Yeah, you're seeing the 30-year yield
close to 3.2% the record high as you
have politicians saying we need to cut
taxes, increase spending, and they are
actually getting the running seat. They
are seeing uh increasingly popular as a
result. This goes to an existential
question. Where is the anchor going to
be in the global developed market bond
market at a time where everyone has
caught the wind of what the US's
strategy has been? Borrow, borrow,
borrow, spend, spend, spend and never
take the medicine that's required to
actually pay your bills.
>> It's not the US right now, and it's
certainly not Japan, that's for sure.
More on the bond market in just a
moment. Coming up, we'll catch up with
Tom Becka of Black Rockck looking for a
strong CPI print tomorrow morning. Henry
Trace of Vader Partners as President
Trump slaps a 30% tariff on Mexico and
the EU. and John Navalo of UBS on the
potential for a housing recovery in
2026. We begin this hour with stocks
down on President Trump's latest tariff
threats. Tom Becker of Black Rockck
writing, "Our read of the data is that
we'll get a stronger month overmonth CPI
read on Tuesday. This earning season is
an opportune time for the companies to
provide guidance on how and when tariff
costs will be passed through to consumer
prices." Tom joins us now for more. Tom,
welcome to the program. Let's start with
that first line. Why are you and the
team expecting a pick up in inflation as
soon as tomorrow?
>> Morning, John. Good to see you. Uh,
yeah, I think you we've had a couple
months here, a quarter of of weaker CPI
prints. And from our take, that's been
related to companies not really knowing
what the effect of terror is, not
wanting to antagonize consumers, not
really wanting to potentially lose
market share and step out ahead of their
competitors uh where where others are
maybe a little bit more cautious with
raising prices. And as your last guest
said, uh consumers are pretty savvy. Uh
inflation expectations and behavioral
changes around inflation are embedded
into behavior now. And I think companies
are aware of that. We think with the
increasing um certainty that companies
have about some of the effective tariff
rates, we think some of the pass through
is going to start happening in in this
June CPI this week.
>> Tom, let's say you're right and
inflation firms up through the summer.
Is it the kind of inflation you can look
through or the kind of inflation that
you should expect to hang around and
maybe continue to pick up? Uh from a
policy setters perspective, this is the
worst kind of sequencing you can imagine
because you're having these deals
negotiate over the course of months and
quarters, which looks like a slow
bleedin of inflation into the economy
rather than one month one and done. Um
when the tariffs first came up, we were
thinking about this as like a VAT hike
as as a framework to kind of think about
how this might affect the economy. So
it's a tax hike. It's on consumers. It's
on a subset of the things that they
consume. but it's seeming more like it's
it's going to be a more continuous bleed
into the data. Um, and so that's
trickier for policy makers to say uh
come next June or July, oh, the tariffs
are no longer in the data. We think it's
going to be much more of a gradual
process. Uh, you know, keeping prices
closer to 3 4% uh for for a while here.
>> You know, for the past couple of months,
everyone keeps kept saying that the
United States will bear the brunt of all
of these tariffs in the terms in terms
of slower economic growth. Are we
rethinking that now, especially as other
countries are being forced to spend and
borrow at a faster pace?
>> Good question. I I think there are three
potential uh parties that can pay the
tariffs. You can have exporters pay the
tariffs. Uh you can have US consumers
pay the tariffs, but the actual parties
that have been paying the tariffs thus
far are US corporates. So last month, uh
tariff revenue in the US over 27
billion, 20 billion more than a year
ago. that's $20 billion that somebody's
paying and if it's not in consumer
prices, uh it's it's been much more on
margins. And so I think you know the
quote you brought up at the beginning
just thinking through how companies are
going to explain to shareholders uh how
are you going to navigate these price,
how you're going to keep margins. Uh I I
think the US is uniquely in that
position of having to think through who
which which parties bear the tariffs and
to date it's been companies. We think
more of that's going to shift over to to
consumers. Do you think though that it's
companies just in the United States or
do you think that there has been a sort
of sanguin overly sanguin attitude by
investors toward how much of a hit
German companies are going to take,
Japanese companies are going to take and
just around the world.
>> I I think if you look at share price
performance here today, Lisa, it it
seems that uh people have been sanguin
about the the demand hit. Uh and and
you've had foreign companies outpace us.
uh we we've been positioned for for more
US equity performance here in the summer
in this earnings period. We think it's
set up a little bit better. Uh so yeah,
I think there is uh you know there's
been a rating a multiple rerating in in
foreign companies here to date. Uh
they're going to need to start showing
some earnings and if you think about the
medium-term incentives here, tariffs
aren't going away. Uh you're seeing
capex intentions and sourcing intentions
move. Um, I think your previous guest
talked a lot about kind of how this is
embedded into the system and I think
that's the right way to think about it
here. But as you're thinking about
multiple years of tariffs, I think these
slower moving decisions of do I source
my products from abroad like currently
potentially or shift more of that to the
US. Uh, I think that's a very uh
plausible outcome is is you're going to
get more domestic production, more
activity in the US over time.
>> Tom, tariffs aren't going away and the
president almost seems emboldened now.
We're seeing some rates that are higher
for some countries than they were on
April 2nd, but after April 2nd, we saw a
reaction in the market. Do you think the
market at some point will start to push
back?
>> So, I I think on the bond market, it's
been a pretty rangebound year and and
pretty interesting to think about what
some of the catalysts have been for some
of the the shifts in the range. Uh, you
were just talking about the 30-year
Japanese government bond moving up, but
Friday's move in the US was was pretty
big. Um, I'm not really sure if it was
if the market got around to reading
Governor Waller's speech on Thursday,
which talked about having a much uh
lower duration balance sheet. Uh, but
you've had these these yins and yangs of
kind of shifting the market wins. Uh,
initially it was fears of inflation and
then the market got um okay with some of
the the inflation prints and thinking
maybe tariffs weren't going to be so
bad. Uh we think it's more of a delay
here on on kind of the bond market
recognizing if the economy is okay uh
which I think the data has has
definitely borne out the last couple
months in terms of activity and you
start to get inflation here. Are these
fair levels of of yields to compensate
investors for maybe the Fed not having
to cut this year and then the long end
having to deal with with all the
issuance and the supply and the
inflation risk kind of continuing for a
couple years here. Tom, we saw equity
markets do well following the pandemic
with a pickup in inflation. Nominal
growth exploded. Tom, I wonder from your
perspective whether you'd expect
something similar or if it's slightly
different this time and in what way?
>> I I think in terms of getting exposure
to a nominal, like you say, John, a
nominal asset. Equities are great,
particularly to the extent that they can
kind of keep margins high and pass some
of these these costs on to consumers. uh
I think we are the the global economy we
think is in this kind of swim lane of
higher nominal growth than it was in the
previous decade. So we think that's
continuing. We think it's broadening
this year. Uh equities are a great asset
to capture um kind of that expansion. Um
there's a bit of a a Tina element
potentially here uh where people look
they're like bond yields do I really
lock in four something% with inflation
heading above three again um or do I
lever myself again to to kind of the
asset that's going to give me exposure
to that growth and also companies have
been super nimble about dealing with
these tariffs. Uh there was a news last
week about Delta moving engines like
across borders. Um I I wouldn't
underestimate the ability of of US
corporates to navigate these and find
ways to kind of uh deliver shareholder
value back.
>> Tom, what you're saying though, I think
it's important. Just a final question.
There is an underlying assumption here
and that it's the traditional inverse
correlation between stocks and bonds
reasserting itself. How convinced are
the people by that idea given the
dynamics we've seen over the past few
months?
So across the Black Rockck platform,
we're seeing less and less of a
conviction that that we're headed back
to that negative stock bond correlation.
Uh we're seeing lots of flows into
diversifying liquid alternatives that
are are navigating kind of these equity
blips a little bit better than bonds.
And and I think part of the reason why
that positive correlation between stocks
and bonds has been so sticky and
persistent is it's related to kind of
this inflation risk, the institutional
risk. historically that's when you see
that correlation shift to be more
positive. Um, and I don't think anyone
thinks we're going back to kind of a QE
zerp type environment. Uh, which is kind
of the ideal environment for that
diversification from fixed income. So,
broadly we're we're seeing kind of
investors um, you know, shift assets to
to speak to to that um, kind of higher
uh, correlation between those two
assets, which means it's harder to find
diversification in your portfolios. Um
and and that's what investors really
want to find these days.
>> Tom, thank you sir. Appreciate it. Tom
Becker there of Black Rockck giving us
plenty to think about. Might also speak
to some of the moves we've seen in gold
and in in Bitcoin over the past year.
>> You rais a really important point which
is what is the counteryclical uh
response of bond markets at a time where
a lot of governments have already been
borrowing a lot of money. Can they
borrow more to have a fiscal response to
that negative growth shock that whatever
it might be when it comes down the pike?
And if they can't, what does that do to
bond yields and that inverse
correlation?
>> Bond yields this morning high by a
single basis point, the 10-year 442.
With an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief, let's
cross over to Yahara who has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with our top story.
President Trump declaring a 30% tariff
rate for Mexico and the EU. The new
rates are set to take effect on August
1st. EU Commission President Ursula
Vanderion responded saying they are
working towards an agreement but are
prepared to use counter measures while
Mexico's economy minister called the new
levies unjust.
Meanwhile, President Trump and his and
his allies are ramping up pressure on
Fed chair J. Powell. In addition to
criticizing Powell for not cutting
rates, they're now focusing on his
handling of the renovation of head Fed
head headquarters. The Fed says the
renovations are designed to reduce cost
by consolidating its operations, but
critics are focusing on what they call
extravagant design features. And
Amazon's Prime Day sale, which was
doubled to 4 days this year, helped
boost overall online spending in the US
by 30%. The data from Adobe included
sales for Amazon and its competitors
Walmart and Target, which hosted their
own sales. Consumers mostly stocked up
on households items rather than pricier
goods like electronics. Dr. Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhira. Thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next on the program, EU
tariff tensions.
>> The European Union is talking to us.
They want to open up their country.
>> We must prepared for all outcomes
including if necessary wellconsidered
proportionate counter measures. That
conversation up next with Henred Trace
of Vader Partners live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
A quiet start to the week. It gets
busier tomorrow morning. CPI 8:30
Eastern time Tuesday morning. Sandwiched
between a lot of bank earnings Tuesday
and Wednesday. Equity futures right now
negative by a third of 1% on the S&P.
We're down by 0.4 on the NASDAQ 100.
Under surveillance this morning, EU
tariff tensions.
>> The European Union is talking to us.
They want to open up their country. Uh,
I would say Japan to a much lesser
extent in terms of opening up their
country. South Korea wants to make a
deal other than tariffs. So, some of
these deals, maybe I'll change them and
maybe I won't.
>> So, here's the latest. The European
Union preparing to respond after
President Donald Trump threatened 30%
tariffs on the block as talks with the
US drag on.
>> I intend to speak with my US
counterparts again later today. The
current uncertainty caused by
unjustified tariffs cannot persist
indefinitely and therefore we must
prepared for all outcomes including if
necessary wellconsidered proportionate
counter measures to restore the balance
in our transatlantic relationship.
>> Joining us now is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Tyler, the EU versus the US. It
was all very very quiet. Now it's got a
lot louder.
>> Yeah, exactly John. Although it is
perhaps the EU taken a more measured
response here going forward saying that
they will delay their own retaliation
until August 1st in a bid to keep
negotiating with the US. But it was
interesting to hear you heard the EU
trade chief there. He went on to tell
reporters that there is a new sense of
urgency in his words for the trading
block to engage with its other trading
partners. And Bloomberg News had
reported earlier this morning that
contacts with nations including Japan
and Canada could lead to potential
coordination between them against the
United States. We know that the EU
Commission President Ursula Vanderion
will be speaking with her Canadian uh
counterpart, the Canadian Prime Minister
Mark Carney later on today. It's also
probably worth mentioning that the EU
actually reached a preliminary trade
framework with Indonesia over the
weekend as EU officials have said
perhaps there could be more of a focus
on Southeast Asia and the Pacific. This
tariff letter from President Trump
really did appear to dampen perhaps the
negotiations considering our
understanding had been that there had
been progress and that the EU was moving
up in line when it came towards the
potential for a deal. The thing is as
you all know there are just so many
sticking points here. We know the US has
wanted to see greater market access for
its agricultural products for one
example and the EU has really been
focused on those sector specific
tariffs. John, we know there is an
emphasis here when it comes to autos,
but it's also probably worth pointing
out that some of the tariffs that
haven't even been enacted yet, those
tariffs under section 232 on the grounds
of national security concerns that we
are still waiting for like
pharmaceuticals are also still hanging
over these negotiations.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. To Tyler's
point, still waiting for the sectoral
tariffs from the White House.
>> Exactly. And they have been signaled
from this administration a number of
times. We did get copper, we have
aluminum, we have steel, but what's
going on with chips and what's going on
with pharmaceuticals and for some
trading partners like the European
Union, like Japan, that almost
potentially could be more important than
the crosstheboard what they would call
reciprocal rates.
>> Let's stay on Europe. Here's a view from
Henrietta Trade Federa Partners. Quote,
there has been a split view in the EU
over whether to retaliate against or
negotiate with the United States. Since
President Trump announced 30% tariffs on
the EU, the retaliate team has been
getting louder. Henrietta joins us now
for more. Henrietta, welcome back to the
show. That last word, retaliate. What
about the prospect of coordination,
coordination between the EU and
partners?
>> You know, with trade, it's all about the
negotiating partners, whoever the party
is, expanding the cards in their deck.
So, if you can retaliate and you can
also coordinate with other partners, all
the better. And that's plainly what the
EU is doing. And they are working, as
Tyler just pointed out, uh, to reach
deals with Indonesia and other Asian
trading partners to find a way to offset
the, you know, very clear permanent
negatives that are coming from the
United States in terms of these tariffs.
And the only question I really have is
whether the rate stays at 10% for them
or whether it rises to 25%. And those
sectoral tariffs are much more damaging
and really create huge tensions within
the EU block to negotiate. How do you
strike a deal that works for autos but
not pharma and leaves out Ireland for
example? Those are all the issues on the
table.
>> Henrietta, when it comes to coordination
potentially with Brussels and other
capitals around the world, is it going
to help or hurt their hand in
Washington?
>> Uh I mean honestly I'm not sure how much
worse it can get. They are holding off
on retaliating. They did go back and
forth for a couple hours yesterday
morning which was interesting to watch.
As I mentioned, the retaliate team is
getting louder, but I think that they
are trying to deploy as many
alternatives to the United States as
possible to strengthen their hand
because frankly the president is not
moving away from the tariff struggle.
The market is giving him free reign to
do so. Um, and the EU basically has to
do whatever it can to try to, you know,
increase the cards in its deck.
>> Well, is the is every card being used?
like the German defense minister
visiting Washington today at the same
time that Berlin is in talks with the US
about providing weapons for Ukraine and
footing the bill.
>> Yeah. So the Ukraine component is I
think a really big deal and the
president is under extreme pressure from
not just the EU on that front and
getting support from France and other
nations saying that they're going to
increase defense spending, but he's also
under pressure from the United States
Senate. And there are 83 senators or
more who want a really robust sanctions
bill to pass, which not only requires,
you know, 500% sanction that would go
into effect on any nation helping
Russia, but also would sort of hamstring
the president in terms of what he can do
unilaterally and force his hand. And
that's exactly what the president does
not want. So the EU does have some
allies on its side when it comes to uh
being uh pro- Ukraine and anti-Russia.
And that's coming directly from, you
know, sort of inside the building from
the United States Senate.
>> Henrietta, how cohesive is Europe right
now when it comes to how to counter the
United States. And I asked this is the
German chancellor Friedrich Merz Mertz
said over the weekend that if 30%
tariffs would go forward, it would hurt
German's industry, Germany's industry to
the core and said they would have to
even postpone key aspects of their
economic development plan. Really kind
of saying, look, we need to find another
solution.
>> Yeah. And that's exactly the strategy of
the United States right now. The purpose
is to split the EU block. And I think if
you talk to some folks in DC or in the
administration, if that's their
strategy, they wouldn't be mad at it. I
mean, they want to go after very
specific sectors to try to get Germany
to exert pressure on Italy or to get
Ireland to exert pressure wherever it
can over pharma or France, um, whatever
they can do on the agricultural front.
So, it's really about going after as
many individual players and that's why
you have 232s across what uh eight
different sectors right now from steel
and aluminum which hits the EU, autos,
pharma coming on a whole host of other
sectors including aircraft and jets and
engines. Um those are all the the levers
that the US is trying to pull to
fracture the EU the extent possible to
ek out the best deal.
>> Henreda, always great to get your views.
Henrietta Trace there of VA partners
headlines you don't expect to read.
China record exports, record surplus in
the first half of the year. Even with
the trade relationship between the US
and China collapsing, the exports from
China to the rest of the world
exploding.
>> Yeah. Where in particular Southeast Asia
and you saw a 16% decline in exports to
the United States. We have to dig in to
understand exactly how much is going to
Europe. And there are lots of people who
will raise questions about the
credibility of this data. But
>> as they should,
>> as they should. But there is this
question about trans shipments and how
much of that exporting volume to
Southeast Asia is just getting rerouted
right back to the United States and
whether that's going to be something
that the president can stop.
>> Exactly. For the month of June, it was
down 16% going to the United States. But
those Chinese goods are still somehow
ending up in the United States. And I
wonder if you're a US official looking
at this data, you're thinking, where do
we need to go after when it comes to
trans shipping? And they're trying to
work this out with Vietnam. Who else
>> need to force it on everyone else for
this to work? Equity futures right now
in the S&P down by a third of 1%. Up
next, RBC Capital Markets US head veto
Spaduto on the outlook for M&A ahead of
earning season. Plus, Yhierra with your
morning movers. Fox getting an upgrade
on its advertising pricing power. Live
from New York, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
Equity
futures so far on the S&P negative by a
third of 1%. A small week of losses on
the S&P 500 last week. With Friday's
losses, we just missed out on a third
week of gains. A third week of gains
would have been the longest weekly
winning streak of the year so far on the
S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, we're softed by
4/10en of 1%. Similar move on a small
caps on a Russell 2000. With two hours
until the opening bell, let's get you
some morning movers with more. Here's
Yahira. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. As you said, futures are lower,
but I managed to find some stocks
bucking that trend. And we start with
Fox shares are up 3 and 3/4% after Wolf
Research upgraded the stock to peer
perform, pointing to the strength of
Fox's news and sports businesses.
They're saying that NFL broadcasts
continue to deliver strong and stable
audiences for them and that they see no
signs of an advertising slowdown for
now. And we move on to shares of
synopsis. They are hired 3.5% after the
chip design company secured approval
from China to buy another company for
$35 billion. The deal between these two
US companies needed Beijing's signoff
because China as we know remains one of
the largest markets for semiconductors
and regulators there wanted assurances
that synopsis with this deal would not
cut off Chinese customers. So a big
hurdle cleared for them. And we end with
some more optimism. Take a look at
Cryptolink Stocks, Micro Strategy, and
Coinbase. All higher, riding Bitcoin's
latest move higher as it soarses to
record highs, reaching $122,000.
And this is coming as Congress gears up
for crypto week where they p plan to
take on crypto legislation. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
On our radar this morning, our top
story, President Donald Trump
reiterating his call for lower interest
rates, saying Fed chair JPAL should
quit. Administration officials also
ramping up criticism of Pal's handling
of an expensive renovation of the Fed's
HQ.
>> They're throwing everything at him and
they're trying to find justification for
why they can fire him and the market is
sort of shrugging it off and saying
either this is just theater optics for
some of the Kevin to audition more
publicly and maybe uh this isn't
something that could actually change the
dynamic of the FOMC just simply because
it's not just a oneperson FOMC. There
are other members too. To me, the fact
that Kevin Walsh brought up a regime
change for the Fed, talking about some
sort of shift in the composition of the
committee and overhaul, that made me
take notice, maybe that's just he wants
to get into the front seat in this race.
That made me take notice to the fact
that what they really do want is more
seats to fill people that have their
world view, which makes me think that it
is going to be someone like Governor
Waller. Because if Powell decides to
leave when his chairmanship is up,
because he could stay until 2028, they
want that seat for someone else to agree
with people like Governor Waller that
are currently on the board.
>> I've got no idea who's going to be
chosen. But if you wanted a credible
voice for someone making a credible
argument for lower interest rates, he's
on the Federal Reserve already. His name
is Governor Waller.
>> If you put a Hassid in, I think the
market will respond pretty pretty
dramatically because it will be
considered somebody who is a political
ally of this president. Worsh you say
the world view what is his world world
view considering that he was relatively
hawkish the bigger question is how much
does this affect the dollar more than
even yields because it really goes to
the heart of credibility of the United
States and if you start drawing too many
parallels with Turkey that's not a great
thing
>> right now it's not affecting anything
bond yields are high by single basis
point let's turn to trade the EU
planning to engage more with other
countries hit by President Trump's
tariffs sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the block could potentially
coordinate with Canada and with Japan
this is a This is a change and they're
looking for leverage at the same time
that they're trying to get the European
nations to coales around some sort of
plan of how they're going to counter the
United States. This to me was one of the
most interesting things Henry Dree is
really highlighting. This is the
strategy of this administration to split
the defense. This is sort of the classic
football move to use or or or you know
or soccer move. You want to try to
create dissonance among the European
allies so that they come together and
actually have to accept it or negotiate
and accept pain. That's I'm going to
keep watching to understand exactly how
they're doing that.
>> It's that forever question. If you're
sitting in the White House, you want to
call Europe. Who do you call? Who's
answering the phone? Is it Ursula
Vanderline? Is it the German chancellor
who's sending his defense minister to
Washington today to talk about Ukraine
and defense? or is it someone like
Georgia Maloney who has we've seen had
this outreach to the Trump
administration individual who's made her
way to Mara Lago before he was even
inaugurated. It's a challenging moment
for the European Union because it really
is hurting cats when you're dealing with
all of these different countries.
>> You mentioned Germany and defense. Worth
mentioning this story that the president
is saying the US will send more Patriot
air defense batteries to Ukraine. His
comments coming ahead of what he
described would be a quote major
statement on the war later on today. So
he said he haven't agreed on a number
yet, but he said he's going to send
these Patriot defense missiles. The big
question going today is will he send
anything that's more offensively? And
also when you have the German defense
minister Boris Ptorius here, they're the
ones that are saying maybe we can help
pay for some of this that's going to
Ukraine. The second thing to watch for
today is does the president signal that
he is in favor of this bill that worked
is working its way through Congress. the
number of Republican senators want to
see. And this will make it much more
challenging for Russia to export crude
to China and India, basically the two
biggest economies they're going to.
>> And by the way, does he link the two
issues on trade and on defense if we do
this for the Europeans for Ukraine? What
are you going to do coming back? And by
the way, we don't like what we heard in
a Bloomberg News story earlier this
morning that you're looking to
coordinate with trade partners to make
it more difficult for us.
>> I absolutely think the president views
all of this as one and the same. He will
say, "We are doing something for you on
Ukraine. Now you need to help us when it
comes to trade."
>> Three of the big stories so far this
morning. Let's turn to deal making. The
M&A market in focus ahead of a big week
of bank earnings. Vtos Baduto of RBC
Capital Markets saying M&A activity is
delayed, not derailed. Writing, "The
backlog of M&A opportunities continues
to build. Deals will happen. They're
just not happening as quickly as many
had expected." Veto, it's good to see
you. Good morning.
>> Thank you for having me. the difference
between those two words delayed and
derailed. What inspires confidence that
this is just delay a delay and not a
derailment?
>> Well, I think the the fundamental
conditions have continued to be very
solid. I think the uh corporates are are
sitting flush with cash more so than
they have historically. Um I think for
for clients for instance, we're open to
lend to clients to support their
transactions uh much like we were
earlier in the year. I think people have
gotten comfortable with the current
environment. they are operating in an
environment of constant uncertainty. And
so when you talk about whether it's
tariffs or other policy coming out of
the sea, you have to plan for multiple
scenarios. And so what we're finding
with our clients is that they're
preparing for transactions. Um there's a
fair amount that they'd like to do.
They're continuing their plans. It's
just a question of when do you make the
decision to do it. And so it's delayed
to the right. It's not being taken off
the table. Um, and so I think there's a
fair amount of activity when the window
does open.
>> A lot of people said it was a wait and
see economy and then Delta Airlines
happened and Ed Bastion came out and
said that things are stable, businesses
have clarity, they're investing again.
Have we broken out of that wait and see
economy?
>> I I I think some have. I I think we're
we're seeing it certainly. I I take a
look very closely, for example, at the
CEO confidence index out of the
conference board. So the the median
there is 50 on a scale of 0 to 100 in
terms of the inflection point. In the
first quarter which was taken in
February um CEOs were at a 60 meaning
that they were confident in the forward
outlook. They felt positive about it.
The survey that was taken at in miday
dropped to 34. It's the biggest
quarterly drop that you've seen. So
what's happened between February and May
liberation day. So that tariff and
policy uncertainty uh concerns about
geopolitical instability and then also
an uncertain regulatory environment in
some cases um has driven them to not
make decisions and so when they looked
at that a a very high number of them
felt that we were in a worse position
versus 6 months ago back in May. Um but
what we are seeing is that look I I
think you look to Trump 1.0
versus this. It took a full year of the
first administration uh for people to
get their arms around what it meant. I
think it's happening quicker now and I
think the better companies uh are
prepared and they're going to enact
policy.
>> The pipeline is rich. The pipeline is
there. Look, I think that one reason why
a lot of people are looking at this is
because we are going to get the earnings
from JP Morgan and City tomorrow and
Wells Fargo and then from Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs on Wednesday. And
people are wondering how much of a boom
this is going to be to them considering
that heading into this year, it was
supposed to be the year of M&A, didn't
happen. How much has that been derailed?
>> Uh well, I think you're seeing if you
look at M&A volumes this year, announced
volumes, it's actually up versus last
year, but a lot of those transactions in
the first quarter were things that were
already on the books about to happen.
And so you have US M&A announced volumes
are up 16% this year. Uh globally, it's
up 26%.
But it's really larger deals, billion
dollar plus, are driving that. And the
smaller deals, the sub a billion, are
actually slightly down in value. Um, so
what's happened is a lot of it's just
been, like we talked about, pushed to
the right. Um, people should not be
surprised by this. Like I said just now,
this is what happened back in uh 20 um
uh 2017 during the first administration.
Um but what we are seeing is that um
where we sit today versus the beginning
of the year is that there has been a
tightening of the bid ask spread. I
think parties that are prepared and feel
confident are out there doing
transactions. I think sellers that need
capital and need to for instance if
you're a private equity firm and you
need to return capital to your LPs
you're looking at various alternatives.
It might not be a traditional sale but
maybe you look at a continuation
vehicle. Maybe uh you're looking at some
structured equity. Maybe you're looking
at a minority sale or taking a loan on
your net asset value. Um and you're
finding ways to return capital because
that's the lifeblood of what they need
to do.
>> I wonder how much the scenario for how
people are financing these purchases has
changed with yields where they are. Have
you seen people less willing or
companies not people companies less
willing to incur debt to make those
purchases and want to do it in all stock
or crash or whatever just simply because
of the fees?
>> I I think if you go back um two years
ago, a year ago certainly um I think
people had not accepted this new level
yet. I think they've accepted it now. So
they understand rates higher for longer.
Um I think if you look at where um where
the calls are. For instance, our rate
desk just pushed out their call last
week that instead of a first cut
happening in September, it's now going
to be December just because it's too
short of a window to August 1st or to
sep the September meeting to really see
any u statistics that will allow the Fed
to cut. And so as a result, I think
companies are saying, I'm going to be in
this environment longer. I need to make
the right decisions for my business. Um,
it's too soon to just focus on 26 and
beyond, but I think a lot of folks are
looking at their more longer term plans
and as a result, you're seeing them make
decisions that are strategic. I I always
like to say good strategic transactions
will happen and we can find a way to
support them and finance them. And we're
seeing that with our best clients.
>> But Vita, what's the risks in delaying?
>> The the risk in delaying is that someone
else takes advantage and you're sitting
on the sideline left behind. And so
we're seeing a lot of activity in some
sectors where folks are feeling that,
you know, for example, if you look at
the technology sector, I think folks are
trying to build their pipelines from an
AI perspective and they're looking and
saying, I need to be in here quickly. I
can't wait to develop this on my own.
I'm going to acquire it. Uh if you think
about some other sectors like
industrials, they're looking to
diversify um their supply chains and
think about making sure they've got
ample supply in various geographies. uh
and so that they're tariff resistant uh
and and they know they have to operate
in this environment. We know it's going
to not necessarily be what's out there
in terms of a headline today, but we
don't know what that's going to be and I
think they're planning for various
scenarios.
>> Just finally, Lisa brought up the price
of money. Do rate cuts make a
difference? Do they move the dial?
>> I I think as I started before I said
we're looking for a signal for the for
sort of people to make decisions. I
think uh certainly rate cuts would be a
good signal to the market and to uh
buyers and sellers that this is an
environment where we're ready to
transact and there's a level of
confidence there. Uh M&A is about
aligning um many different factors and
so you need your management teams, you
need your boards, you need them all to
have confidence in the forward outlook.
If they feel that the Fed's giving a
strong signal like that, I think that's
a positive. But at the same time, I
think the better companies are prepared
to act in this environment. And so
again, uh I jokingly say we always have
a pretty full pipeline. It's pretty full
right now, but I again I'd love to see a
lot of that u transition to announce
transactions.
>> You're certainly not alone. It's good to
see you, sir. Thanks for dropping by.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Vaspad there of RBC Capital Markets with
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Back
with us here is Yahara. Hey, Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. An initial report on the crash
of an Air India aircraft last month says
fuel supply to both engines was switched
off just seconds after takeoff. The
report does not reveal why the fuel
switches were moved to a cut off
position on the Boeing Dreamliner, nor
who did it. The crash killed all but one
of the 242 people on board. Meanwhile,
Elon Musk says he's planning a
shareholder vote on Tesla's investment
in his own AI startup XAI. In a post on
his social media platform X, Musk said
if it were only up to him, the EV giants
would have invested in XAI a long time
ago. His comments came after the Wall
Street Journal reported that his other
company SpaceX had agreed to invest $2
billion in XAI.
And topranked Yannik Center defeated
Carlos Alcarez three sets to one to win
his first Wimbledon championship and the
first for an Italian. It's his f fourth
Grand Slam title overall. The contest
was a rematch of last month's epic
French Open final that saw Alcarez come
back to win. This time it was Cinder's
turn. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. The resilience of
tennis players to bounce back from the
French and the loss that Yanick just
had. We've got 10 15 more years of this.
22 and 23 years old. Just amazing
>> to bounce back from the French. You mean
just tennis players or the Italian
tennis player who took the helm? Just
want to say
>> the Italian player that bounced back and
everyone that's been following
>> against the carry on.
>> Everyone supporting him. Okay. Okay.
We're done. Up next on a program,
housing disinflation.
>> Inflation's coming down. Of course, we
get a big CPI report, but we're at the
lowest level since 2021. There's
significant disinflation coming from the
housing side. I wish more people were
talking about this right now.
>> We'll talk about it in just a moment
with John Navalo of UBS from New York.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
You just sense confidence this morning.
Confidence that the price of tariffs
this high is too high and they won't
follow through. Confidence that the
price of firing chairman Pal is too high
and they won't follow through. Equity
futures this morning down by a quarter
of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ. A
similar move in the bond market on a
2-year 10-year 30-year. You'd have no
idea the kind of pressure Chairman Pal
was under. Yields are higher by just two
basis points. The 10-year 44273.
This from a team at Everore. We doubt
Trump will actually fire Chairman Pal.
Bessent likely warning of the mayhem
this would cause in markets. Serious
doubts the Supreme Court would even
uphold the decision
>> which maybe explains why yields are up
just marginally in the United States
even as they're up much more around the
world for other unrelated reasons.
Question is, are we playing a big game
of chicken where people are waiting for
people being President Trump waiting for
the markets to respond and when they
don't respond he says sees a green light
to just keep going?
>> Keep pushing. Keep pushing. Yields this
morning pushing higher by just two basis
points. Tomorrow morning, inflation data
on deck. Under surveillance this
morning, housing disinflation.
>> Inflation's coming down. Of course, we
get a big CPI report, but we're at the
lowest level since 2021. There's
significant disinflation coming from the
housing side. I wish more people were
talking about this right now. We have
the most homes on the market since 2020.
Demand is slowing in the face of
unaffordability. there's enough
disinflation on the shelter or housing
side to potentially overcome any
goodsdriven uh tariff inflation that we
see.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Shelter costs in focus going into
tomorrow's CPI report. John Lavvel of
UBS writing investor sentiment appears
to be improving and the focus is
shifting towards the prospect for a
housing recovery in 2026. John joins us
now for more. John, good morning.
>> Thanks for having me, John.
>> Emily Roland just there. Let me read out
some of that. Inventory, homes on the
market, the most since 2020. Demand is
slowing in the face of unaffordability.
How would you describe the current
backdrop?
>> I think it's a, you know, I've said this
before, but it's a tale of two markets.
I mean, existing home inventory is still
very low. New home inventory has picked
up in certain markets. We could talk
about the I4 corridor of Florida between
Orlando and Tampa. You could talk about
Austin. You could talk about Phoenix.
But the builders had done the rational
thing, and that is try to fill the gap
of not having enough existing home
inventory. Now things have slowed a
little bit more than people had expected
and again they're doing the right thing
and they're pulling back on production.
So our view is that as we work through
the end of this year that inventory is
going to be in a lot better spot.
>> Housing recovery, what does that mean?
Does that mean price is going up? Does
that mean more transactions or does that
mean that there's just going to be a
balancing where you're not going to see
as much inventory in a number of the
places that you're talking about?
>> Lisa, I think it's a little bit of of of
all of those, right? I mean, I think you
see inventory get worked through, but
most importantly, look, consumer
confidence appears to be stabilizing,
right? And along those same lines,
investor sentiment is stabilizing. And
as you know, as that quote said, they're
looking towards a 2026 that could be a
little bit better. And just as
importantly, I think that there's an
expectation that we may see one more cut
in earnings, but it will be less
pronounced than it's been in the in the
second quarter here, and it will be the
final cut, and that is generally when
you want to get involved. So, I think
inventory gets better. I think consumer
confidence improves, pulls buyers off of
the sidelines and back into the market.
And I start to we start to see a little
bit of an improvement in the overall
housing market.
>> But to Emily Roland's point, there has
been a disinflationary force given how
much inventory has built up in a lot of
places and the fact that a lot of people
feel locked out of the housing market
because rates are too high and prices
are too high and even people who want to
make have renovations, they worry about
the cost of materials and things of that
nature. I'm just wondering how much you
see people absorbing higher prices if
you see this as a as a source of
inflation or ongoing disinflation.
>> Yeah, it's a really interesting dynamic
where this disinflation is being driven
by several factors, right? If you think
about it, historically, new homes have
commanded 17 to 18% premium to existing
homes. That is zilch. We are they're
equal. But now, keep in mind what's
driving that is a lot of mix. And what I
mean by that is the builders are
realizing that hey affordability is a
real challenge. So what we need to do is
sp is build smaller homes a little less
amenitized a little further away from
the city to bring these prices into into
ranges where people can actually
transact.
>> Can you get a housing recovery without a
fed rate cut?
>> I absolutely think you can. If you think
about the third year right now we're at
6.8%.
Um, if you think about last year when we
had a really strong market, we were over
7% for most of the year. I think what's
most important is stabilization. Think
about it. The volatility we're seeing in
mortgage rates makes it very difficult
for consumers to go out and purchase.
Makes it very difficult for the
businesses, the companies to actually
figure out how to plan their businesses.
And you know, there's just this
uncertainty is not good for anything.
>> And you think part of that uncertainty
is also driven by what's going on in
Washington in terms of tariff policy.
What makes you think if you think
there's a recovery in 2026 that the
tariff uncertainty will actually stop?
Now,
>> it's a good question. I don't know that
it's you tariffs play into it 100%. But
if you think about the tariff impact on
the housing market, it's actually a lot
lower than it is for many other
industries. We've estimated 5 to 6% to
the cost of an average home. I don't
think the builders shield or or cover
most of that. I think it gets spread
throughout the value chain. I think it's
more uncertainty about just the overall
economy. And you know, if you're
thinking about buying or transacting
upon the biggest purchase of your life,
which is a house, you want to feel you
want to feel good about things.
>> Makes the question why the home builders
can't get off the map because we have
seen a recovery in the index level on
the S&P 500. Had a lot of guests come on
the program and say similar things to
what you're saying. Pricing the recovery
for 26. A lot of people are doing that.
Home builders are not. Why is that?
>> Well, we've had a pretty good run over
the past couple weeks and I think
there's a lot more to come. We're still
trading at just over eight times
earnings. Um, historically, I would tell
you an average uh PE multiple is closer
to 11 or 12 times. So, we have a lot a
lot of room to go. It doesn't take much
to get this group going. It's just a
little bit of kick in the tail and
you're going to see these things go off
to the races.
>> Is there an income group you want
exposure to? The likes of Toll Brothers.
Is there a region you want more exposure
to? What kind of exposure do you want to
take? I would say that look from an
income group and maybe this sounds a
little counterintuitive. We still like
the entry level first time because that
is the buyer that is most need-based.
You know, think about it getting
married, having children. Now, sure, you
could say that they're more um reliant
upon interest rates. But then if you
think about it, there's a $62 trillion
wealth uh wealth transfer that's
happening in the US. 25% of first-time
buyers say that they receive down
payment assistance. Um, this buyer has
also done things a little later in life,
so they're a little better financed and
they are again, they need that space.
Now, to to your point though, John, we
like the higher end as well. So, sort of
a barbell approach where those folks,
the Toll Brother buyer is still spending
a lot on options and upgrades, and
that's that's very accreative to
margins.
>> I think you and I are thinking of the
same thing, aren't we? Down payment
assistance.
>> Yeah. You need rich parents and then
you're fine. That's it.
>> Thank mom and dad. Thank mom and dad.
>> 100%. It's sort of like, you know, hey
guys, you want, you know, taxfree uh
pass along the uh the endowment. There
you go.
>> First- time buyers. That's a data point
that should be on the desk of every
single politician in this country.
>> Yeah. Especially for people who don't
have, you know, the Bank of Mom and Dad.
>> Precisely. John, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. I appreciate it.
John Love there of UBS. Up next on the
program, Julie Beal of Kane Anderson
Runick, Sal Martinez of HSBC, Michael
Dada of Roth Capital, and Mark Cabana of
Bank of America. The third hour of
Blindberg Surveillance up next.
[Music]
Investors are saying that everything is
awesome and there's not a lot of risk.
>> We have a stronger stock market at this
point. So that does embolden the
president to go forward and be more
aggressive. Now there will be very big
differences if the tariffs come out at
the higher level.
>> What the market is telling you is that
yes, we're expecting volatility.
>> We could spend a lot of time thinking
about the noise, the volatility is out
there. It hasn't paid off to just say
I'm going to stay off the markets.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. 90 minutes
away from the opening bell. Your price
action looks like this. Equity futures
down by about a third of 1% on the S&P
and the NASDAQ 100 in the bond market. A
bit of a snooze state side for most of
this morning. Yield starting to pick up
now on a 10-year maturity higher by two
or three basis points at a long end of
the curve going into a very busy week
including lots of economic data. It's
not just bank earnings, CPI on deck,
retail sales as well. And another look
at jobless claims.
>> Key question here, how much are we
seeing inflation pick back up or is this
going to be a story of disinflation? And
Mark Cabana who's coming up of Bank of
America put it this way. Is it tariff
inflation? Is it the ghost of tariff
inflation or the disinflation deity? Is
sort of which fiction are we living in?
And right now the market's trying to
toggle between no both of those while
looking at policy uncertainty and saying
eh we're going to have a beer and take
the summer off.
>> Bank of America, no cuts this year,
right? Morgan Stanley, no cuts this
year. Wolf Research, Stephanie Roth on
this program in the last week or so, no
cuts this year. Wait until the middle of
next year. If you think the pressure is
big right now on Chairman Pal, wait
until later this year if they still
haven't cut interest rates,
>> especially if you don't see that
inflation pick up in the CPI. If there
is a lagged effect on the economic data
and you are not seeing some sort of hit
to companies, well, what is the argument
to actually cut rates if the economy is
still chugging along? At the same time
that you might not have an inflationary
pressure, it just raises this question
for the Fed. how much do they have to
cut and then also fend off some of these
political discussions.
>> Big question mark too for the Fed and
they continuously talk about this is
that they do not know the endgame when
it comes to tariff rates. Right now we
see over the weekend more hot rhetoric
when it comes to the European Union.
European Union has jumped since April
2nd from 20 to 30 to excuse me to 50
back to 30. When it comes to Mexico,
they're now at 30%. Everyone is
signaling this is a negotiation time.
Well, if there's still a negotiation,
they don't settle on a rate. What is the
Fed supposed to do with that?
>> You're going through the research over
the weekend. There's a few words that
pop out. Here's one. Complacency. This
from Julian Emanuel of EverCore. Tariffs
likely to pressure complacent EPS
forecasts. We're actually going to see
that this earning season.
>> Well, maybe they'll have to. I think it
depends on which sector. Are you going
to see certain sectors start to indicate
that they're going to make a little bit
less as they try to avoid passing along
some of those tariff costs to consumer?
I just keep thinking about what we were
hearing about uh earlier from Leo. Uh
the idea that companies already are
offsetting this with the dollar
depreciation and that you are seeing
sort of longlasting contracts that make
this really a lagged kind of process. My
head's spinning. If I seem out of it,
it's cuz you're trying to put all these
pieces together and you think, how do we
create a cohesive narrative? And that's
why so many people are saying, you know
what, we're just going to ignore it. If
you seem out of it, which you don't,
>> it's a market with no weekends.
>> Fair. That's what it is.
>> That's true. Yeah.
>> There is no two days off anymore.
>> It's honestly some individual in the
White House who has endless energy, who
does not sleep, who seems to have the
ability to just keep going. He is the
Energizer Bunny. Kudos to you. I am a
lot younger than you. And yet here I am
and I'm trying to keep up.
>> Half the president's age, still
exhausted. Equity futures down by about
a third of 1% on the S&P. No big drama
here state side. Some drama in Japan
which we'll touch on later this hour.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Judy Bill of Kane Anderson Runick on the
risk of complacency. S Martinez of HSBC
signaling caution ahead of bank earnings
and Mark Cabana of Bank of America as
pressure builds on Fed Jal. We begin
this hour with stocks lower as President
Donald Trump ramps up trade tensions.
Julie Bill of Kane Addison Runick writes
the following. Relying on aggregated
data only spurs complacency. I don't
think the markets are completely
appreciating the impact of these
tariffs. Julie joins us now for more.
Judy, welcome to the show. And I have to
say a lot of people don't for a lot of
reasons, including the headline data.
We've had a string of softer than
expected CPI prints. What is it that you
see beneath those headlines that
concerns you?
>> I think my real concern is that the
aggregated data can have a an effect of
ignoring what's happening in the middle.
It gives you the high-end. So if you see
the consumer spending data, it looks
pretty healthy, but that's really
concentrated at the high end. And that's
even if you cross out the Bezos wedding,
right? The core consumer spending data
is really being lifted by the high end,
which is unusual actually. And it shows
that there's a lot of weakness in the
middle and low-end consumer. So I think
a lot of the data is hiding a lot of the
the morass that can be really affecting
a lot of companies. A lot of the other
issues too is that many companies did
such a great job frontloading their
inventory and holding on to it that I
think that the effects of the tariffs
are actually going to take some time.
Some did better than others. And so I
don't think we're going to get a ton of
visibility into that even for corporate
earnings. I think many will have be able
to say look we're going to take it on
the chin 20 40 50 basis points but we're
going to be okay for the rest of this
year. And those are the ones typically
that have built a lot of their inventory
reserves and are just hoping that cooler
heads prevail by the time we get to the
end of the year.
>> Julie, you said that with a straight
face, but I really want to dig into
that. Are you saying that the Bezos
wedding could actually influence some of
the retail sales numbers and even
inflation?
>> No, I'm absolutely
>> I'm just wondering if you look forward,
right? I'm just asking you this because
we are seeing that skew from higher
income consumers and I just wonder at
what point you have to see some of the
inflation or you have to see a sort of
top level deterioration in retail sales
to say okay we're seeing an effect or
okay maybe we're not going to see an
effect and actually the United States
and the consumer can absorb these
tariffs without seeing the hit that many
people expected. I I think it's a matter
of scale, right? And so if you assume
that the tariffs are on the order of 15
to 20% for going the foreseeable future,
which is kind of what it feels like, it
feels like it actually could even be
even higher. That's almost a doubling of
the corporate tax revenue that we should
be expecting, right? Because it's very
clear that our trading partners abroad
are not paying for it. You would
typically see their currencies devaluing
if that were the case, and that's not
what's happening, right? Our currency is
the one that's devalued. So it's either
companies are going to be paying for it
or consumers are going to be paying for
it. And if you know you look at tax
receipts last year on corporate side of
525 billion and you look at what tariffs
would be, it's comparable. So that's a
large increase and someone's going to
have to pay that bill.
>> Do you think that people are
underpricing the risk to uh companies
outside the United States? I'm thinking
of Europe in particular as they try to
grapple with rates that are still in
flux but are inevitably going to be
high.
Well, I mean, I think you guys talked
about this on the last hour so much of
all of Europe is really trying to figure
out who can our more reliable trading
partners be, right? The US is kind of
acting like that gorgeous girl you
remember from college, right? Who just
thought she was unassailable, right? And
then she gets like a weird nose ring
piercing, right? And she just thinks
she's so hot it won't matter. It won't
matter. But everyone else kind of looks
at her like she doesn't look that great.
And also now I question her judgment a
little bit. It has long-term effects
that we might not see right away, but I
think it really has changed the tenor of
the discussion in Europe where people
are banding together and looking to
other countries and the same is
happening in Asia as well. That's not an
immediate effect that happens over the
longer term.
>> It does feel a bit like high school and
that's the girl who you look back and uh
the reunions and think, huh, really
that's what happened. I am curious
though going forward about whether you
do see this from a market strategy
perspective as you know really
benefiting the rest of the world versus
the United States or do you think that
it's a little fasile to make this
description given the fact that the
dollar still is the reserve currency and
the tech dominance still remains in the
United States
>> I think that's why that's why I make the
metaphor actually right because the girl
is still beautiful right the US economy
is still the most dynamic it has the
most stability to it has the most
innovation Our universities are bar none
the best in the world. There's so much
in this market that is really attractive
and creates everyone to want to stay in
relations with. But I think there's also
this recognition of diversification
being good not just for our portfolios
but for the rest of the world in terms
of the stability of their trading
partners. And I think what worries me is
that in the US we are not accustomed to
any kind of suffering or discomfort.
Right? you lose your internet outage for
20 minutes and you lose your mind.
Europe and you know Asia for sure most
countries in Asia they're much more used
to being able to buckle down for more
communal reasons and such as you know
kind of the own pride of your own
country that's a difficult dynamic where
they may be willing to walk away from
easy profits in the US towards having
more stability and you know more
comprehensive outlook
>> so Julie just to be clear what do you
like right now what would you be buying
>> I I you know look I still like companies
that have a lot of quality quality and
durability to their earnings. And so
they're in the more kind of sleepy
industries. You know, they're parts of
software that I really like where they
can benefit from AI, but you may not
know them very well, like a Daycart that
works in trade management software. I
think the companies that you want, you
want to have a lot of clarity and
confidence that their earnings are going
to be there. You know, think of like a
FICO or an Equifax. Those are the types
of businesses that I think you better
you're better off owning right now.
>> I'm not going to ask you who the hot
girl with a nose ring was at college.
We'll let you go. But I'm sure she
exists. That felt real. That felt real.
>> It wasn't me. I wasn't pretty enough for
it.
>> That felt real. Julie, appreciate it.
Jilly Bill there of Kane Anderson
Runday. Thank you very much. That and
Italian GDP expasos.
>> Honestly, all I can say is it does feel
high school. I think that's the reason
why it's an apt uh an apt analogy. I
wouldn't say that that's college. I
think that that's high school. I hope
that people grow out of that whole phase
of, you know, who's hot and who's not
and who got a nose ring. Oh my god. Did
you see it? Like that kind of stuff.
Really?
>> Well, so the point is the United States
is still a hot place. The economy is
still chugging along even though we're
in the midst of all of these back and
forth tit fortat trade headlines.
>> On a serious note, Microsoft in the past
few weeks, look what we learned here at
Bloomberg saving hundreds and hundreds
of millions of dollars shifting I think
call centers towards AI. That's the
amount of costsaving we could see not
just for the tech players but across the
S&P 500 in the next few years. This is
the reason why people are saying how
tariff dependent are some of these
equity valuations even if in the short
term profits don't increase that much
which was Lori Calvina's point in that
recent upgrade of the uh of of her S&P
target.
>> NASDAQ futures this morning down by only
a third of 1% with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. We'll get back
on track with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. The EU is preparing to further
relations with other countries hit by
President Trump's tariffs. That's
according to sources familiar. The EU
competition chief said it is looking to
deepen trade agreements with India and
other countries in the Asia-Pacific
region. The block suspended retaliatory
tariffs on US goods that were scheduled
to take effect today. Meanwhile, Warner
and DC studio Superman debuted at the
top of the North American box office
this weekend. According to data released
by ComCore, the movie gross grossing
$122 million. The film starting starring
David Kornsweet in the dual role of
Superman and Clark Kent currently holds
an 82% approval rating on Rotten
Tomatoes. And Sabes New York has a new
item going up on Wednesday. The auction
house will be selling NWA16788,
which is the largest piece of Mars ever
found on Earth, coming in at 54 lbs. The
meteorite is believed to have been blown
off Mars surface by a massive asteroid
strike before landing in the Sahara. The
estimated auction price is between two
to 4 million. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Yhara, thank you. Sounds like something
Elon might buy, right?
>> I have to be honest, I think that's
really cool. I really do. I don't know
that I prefer
>> the Kang Griffin dinosaur.
>> That's actually pretty wild. Yeah, but
it both are kind of awesome. I
>> That's like living the 8-year-old's
dream. Give an 8-year-old a fortune,
they'd buy they'd buy the dinosaur. It's
true. It's true. And at the same time,
it's just where would you put it?
>> Where is the dinosaur now? Do we know?
Museum somewhere.
>> I don't know. Or maybe it's in his home.
Maybe it's his living room.
>> I'll find out in the commercial break.
>> At the dinner table.
>> Big enough based on some of the housing
that Kenny G's got.
>> Yeah, that's true. Fair point.
>> Up next on the program, the morning
calls. Plus, Soul Martinez of HSBC
signaling caution ahead of bank
earnings. That conversation up next.
[Music]
He probably should have cut rates or be
on the pace I we should be cutting in
July. I don't agree with all this
policy, but I think pushing them out and
this pressure markets aren't going to
like it. The world's not going to like
it. So, I I don't love that strategy. I
think it's actually going to be a muted
reaction. A shakeup and kind of some
different thinking wouldn't be a bad
idea. Again, I'm not sure that it should
be done in this kind of, you know, very
quick and rough way.
>> Peter Sherv Academy making a headline in
the last couple of hours. This stood out
for me. It's actually going to be a very
muted reaction if they fired Chairman
Powell. I have to say that is incredibly
contrarian from Peter Chair.
>> A lot of it depends on a who they
replace him with, but b the composition
of the rest of the committee because
barring some sort of constitutional
change doesn't seem like the president
has the ability to open up more seats or
make some sort of massive change to a
committee that really is a committee.
>> It's very contrarian because you would
think the one thing that is holding the
administration back from already doing
this given the fact that they have so
many problems with JPAL is the fact that
they're concerned about the market
reaction. No problems in the markets
right now. Let's be clear about that.
Particularly in equities. Very close to
alltime highs. Still only pulling back
by a quarter of 1% on the S&P on the
morning. So far on the session, we're
down by a third of 1% on the NASDAQ.
That's the price action. Time now for
some morning calls. First up, Morgan
Stanley downgrading Crowd Strike to
equal weight, citing a full valuation
and rising growth expectations. Your
second call from Piper Sandler
downgrading Best Buy to neutral,
pointing to long-term competitor
concerns in the appliance and TV
categories. And your third and final
call from Citizens downgrading Goldman
Sachs to Market Perform saying the bar
is high for another leg up. That stock
is softer this morning going into
results. Let's stick with the
financials. Big banks kicking off
earning season this week likely to
benefit from market volatility and
steady borrowing costs. Joining us now
is Herman Chan of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Herman, welcome to the
program. What are you looking for this
week?
>> Right, so regional bank earnings kicks
off uh on Wednesday. We're looking for a
pretty strong quarter. uh loan growth is
going to be uh something that that a lot
of banks are going to tout especially on
the commercial side. Uh there's been a
lot of activity o over the second
quarter as as borrowers prepare for for
tariffs. Um and then that interest
margin should be fairly stable. So it's
going to be a pretty strong result
across the board for regional mix.
>> Herman, we spoke to the capital markets
piece of RBC earlier this morning, Vtos
Paduto, and we talked about this pickup
potentially of activity in the second
half. you expecting that to happen? Do
we have the clarity we need for these
companies to make the decisions they
want to make?
>> I I think a lot of uh uh bank management
teams are talking about a holding
pattern. So there is um there there's
more optimism relative to to liberation
day in April. But there they're still in
a wait and see mode as to how things
shake out. There's still a lot of
uncertainty. But uh on the bright side,
things are transa uh banks are are
seeing transactions and credit quality
is holding up really well. So, uh, blue
skies on that front.
>> Along may that continue. Herman Chan of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Herman, thank
you, sir. Going into earnings, HSBC
downgrading JP Morgan, Goldman, and Bank
for America opting for a cautious stance
after a major rally. HSBC's Soul
Martinez joins us now for more. Saul,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That's quite a downgrade going into
earnings season. And some of those
stocks have now got the equivalent of a
sell, I believe. Just help us understand
why. Look, we just think for the
universal banks and for the investment
banks, valuations are unattractive given
um the this, you know, still elevated
uncertainty on the macro side. So, the
money centers in Goldman, Morgan Stanley
are up 20 to 40% over the last 3 months.
They're trading at anywhere between a 10
and 50% premium on a P basis to their
10-year historical averages. you
sometimes get the the point made that
they're still trading at pretty big
discounts relative to the S&P 5 S&P 500
and in but they're no longer at outsiz
discounts relative to their history
anymore. They're trading at a fairly
narrow discount relative to their
10-year average or close to to um the
the 10-year average discount relative to
the S&P 500. And obviously, you know,
keep in mind that the S&P 500 is over 20
times. The composition of the S&P 500 is
very different than what it was in in,
you know, 5 10 years ago. It's more uh
tech heavy. It's more growth stockheavy.
So you do have to factor that into your
views as well. The other thing I would
mention is the deregulation side is
certainly a positive and one of the
manifestations of that is buybacks.
Banks are going to ratchet up buybacks.
We increased our buyback estimates after
the favorable stress test a few a few
weeks ago, but they're buying their
stocks back at 30% higher stock prices
than they were a few months ago. And in
fact, if you look at our estimates, we
increased the dollar value of our stock
buybacks, you know, considerably going
into the results, but our share count
estimates didn't really change because
it was fully offset by the fact that
they're having to buy back stock at much
higher prices. Those buybacks are
diluted to book value per share. They're
diluted to tangible book value per share
growth. And you know they're they're you
know and then and so we're not actually
the the number of stocks that they're
actually retiring is not different than
what we thought they were going to be a
few months ago when our share buyback
forecasts were much lower than they are
today.
>> A lot to unpack there. I want to just
stay on the deregulation theme and there
is this theory out there that for all of
those years that you're talking about a
lot of them these banks were treated as
utilities and they were not able to
really generate the same types of pre208
profits that really made them more of a
growth sector.
>> Yeah.
>> Why do you reject the idea that some of
the deregulation would allow them to
behave a little bit more in that
risk-taking uh that risk t taking way
that could potentially lead their
profitability to be much higher? Well, I
I'm I'm not making that argument. I'm
not making the argument that
deregulation is not good for them. I'm
not making the argument that they're
going to operate with less excess
capital and that there's a potential to
grow risk-taking activity, whether that
be market making or lending, but they're
not under earning, Lisa. These banks are
making gen returns on tangible common
equities in the mid- teen range, high
teen range. They're generating they're
generating value. They're creating value
right now. they're generating. We we did
a report a few months ago where we
looked at the roni evolution or roe
evolution of big banks relative to 10ear
treasury rates to see kind of what the
spread is and they're not historically
low anymore. So I do think roe are going
higher. I do think profitability will go
higher but for you know but in some of
these risk-taking activities like market
making they're generating very elevated
amounts of of sales and trading income
as it is. So they're not exactly not
allocating a lot of capital there and
loan growth is a function of loan demand
as well. So I I don't know that you can
make the case that they're going to grow
lending in a really outsized way anytime
soon either.
>> What about the other side of the balance
sheet? John was talking about what kinds
of efficiencies could be driven by
artificial intelligence and certain
technological upgrades and we certainly
have seen JP Morgan at the vanguard of a
lot of that. How much could that
potentially be a surprise to the upside
uh that hasn't been fully priced?
>> That's a good question. I I do think,
you know, and and to be clear, we're
we're more cautious on where stocks are
trading at relative to the operating
fundamentals. We don't have a negative
view of operating fun. In fact, we've
been pretty positive on the backs until
recently. Um and and I do think they
will get especially the big banks are
investing quite a lot. JP Morgan 1617
billion annually over 10 billion for
Bank of America. That does give the big
banks a competitive advantage over
regional banks and small banks. And I do
think that you know if they can grow
revenues even low single digits the the
efficiencies they get from technology
and from the benefits of scale will
allow them to generate some positive
operating leverage. And that's a you
know that that is part of the bullc case
of of banks as long as interest rates
don't move down dramatically. If
interest rates stay here you know over
the next couple years you do get
operating leverage you do get earnings
growth you do get EPS growth in the
double digit range. I think it's priced
in but you know that that is a benefit
for these banks. you effectively undo
some of the risk premium incorporated
with tariffs, but your note came out
July 7th.
>> Yeah,
>> that was ahead of this new end date we
had timeline for the Trump
administration. Now they punted to
August 1st. Do you need to put back in
some concern about tariff?
>> Um that's a good question. You read you
read the research now. Um
>> yeah, we did we did we did decline we
did reduce our cost of equity for
because that's that's nice. Um you know
I I I I don't think so at this point. Um
um but our call um is that valuations
are not attractive given still elevated
macro concerns and that is obviously one
of them. I can't predict what tariff
policies is going to be, but I do think
the the the macro dynamics
are there is more risk than there
typically is. And if you do I think if
you do see tangible evidence that
tariffs are going to move higher and
that it will affect economic growth,
then yeah, you have to factor in that
risk premium that we built in on in in
early April, then undid and and now
you're doing again, right? But but you
you know that so if tangible evidence
emerges that it is having a real
economic impact then we'll have to think
about you know how what kind of what
kind of cost of capital we we
incorporate for these banks. So this is
Bloomberg. We always read the note. It's
good to see you. That's great. Got to
catch up. Thank you, sir. So confidence
there of HSBC. A little bit of news for
you. Over the weekend, you saw that
fullcourt press, the administration
going after chairman pal putting the
pressure on him big time from the
president to the vice president to the
NEC director Kevin Hasset. With regards
to, of all things, the renovation
project at the Federal Reserve's HQ.
This from Axios this morning. The Fed
chair J. Pal has asked the central
bank's inspector general to review its
$2.5 billion headquarters renovation
project which has become a key focus of
Trump administration attacks. This
according to a source familiar with the
matter speaking to Axios. That's the
latest on that front this morning
>> because he's getting a lot of questions
about it. He wants to talk to the
inspector general, make sure he has the
answers for why it is over budget.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Mike Dada of Roth Capital as
investors await key inflation data.
Plus, you hire back with your morning
movers. Auto desk gaining after dropping
M&A plat
[Music]
about 60 minutes away. Here's a flavor
of the stock action so far. We're down
about 210 of 1% on the S&P, down by a
quarter on the NASDAQ 100. In the bond
market, yield curve steeper. Yields
higher at the long end on 10ens and on
30s, up by two or three basis points on
a 10-year and a 30-year. Check out Japan
though. The epicenter for global bond
market jitters at the moment. Yields
higher across the curve. The curve
steeper, up 10 on 30s, up six on 10.
That 10-year last summer was 80 basis
points at one point. We've doubled in
the last year.
>> And it comes on fiscal concerns with
politicians promising more spending. The
global implications here are significant
because the Japanese buyer had nowhere
to go but outside of their nation for
yield. If they can get yield at home and
that flood of cash stays within the
boundaries of Japan, what does that do
to the rest of the global bond market
that has relied on the east investors to
prop up their own prices at home?
>> Not just bonds, but foreign exchange as
well.
>> Exactly.
>> And that dollar weakness story we've
seen so far this year, that might have
legs, particularly against the Japanese
yen.
>> And how much does that really affect the
inflation story in the United States?
because anything that we do import would
be uh on the margin more expensive. Is
that one venue, one way to offset some
of the tariffs and pass the cost along
to the ultimate consumer?
>> Dolly this morning 147 36 with 1 hour to
go until the open and bow. Let's get
away from bonds just for a moment. Let's
get back to the equity market and get
you some morning movers with Yahira. Hey
yhra.
>> Hi John. We start with shares of
Autodesk. They are up nearly 7% here on
our reporting that the software provider
is no longer pursuing a takeover of its
rival PTC. Talks of a deal had weighed
on the stock in recent weeks, but no
longer. But this deal, well, this merger
would have ranked as one of the year's
largest deals, not just in the software
space, but overall. Next up, we have
shares of Ken View. This is the company
behind Tylenol, Neutrogena, and
Lististerine. Shares are up nearly 6% as
the company announces a string of
changes that Zip faces mounting pressure
from activist investors. The current CEO
will be leaving replaced by an interim
CEO as they begin the search for a
permanent replacement. Kenu is also
saying that it is looking for ways to
simplify its portfolio. So another
consumer goods company announcing some
changes. And we end with Stitch Fix also
surging up 7.6%.
This is the company that gives you a
personal stylist and sends you clothes.
Well, it got an upgrade by analysts over
at William Blair. Now, now they have the
stock at an outperform, saying that
they're gaining confidence in the new
CEO's turnaround strategy. And I will
note that this stock is up nearly 40%
since its April lows. John
>> Yara, thank you. Some of the names to
watch going into the up and lots of data
to watch through the week ahead as well.
Busy, busy week. It includes CPI
starting tomorrow. later in the week,
retail sales and jobless claims. With a
look ahead is Mike McKe. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. It is going to be a
very, very busy week and an important
one too for the Fed because much of the
data are going to inform their decision
that they have to make at the end of the
month, the July meeting at which the
president is going to expect them to cut
rates. Unfortunately, the data are going
to suggest otherwise, probably, at least
according to the Bloomberg survey
forecast. uh Tuesday, we get the CPI,
and it's expected on a year-over-year
basis to rise by a couple of basis
points up to 2.6% from 2.4% now, and
that would essentially preclude any move
at the end of the month. PPI may also
show an increase, especially given the
increase in equity trading over the last
couple of months. Uh the portfolio
management category might be something
to watch. We get the beige book, the
anecdotal reports about what people are
going to be doing, companies are going
to be doing. And then, as you mentioned,
retail sales. Retail sales expected to
slow. That's a thumb on the scale. On
the other side, we'll see. We get
jobless claims. Do they start to move or
not? And we'll see what Michigan
sentiment tells us about people thinking
people's thinking on inflation. The
thing we want to watch for tomorrow is a
pass through of some tariff goods into
inflation. Uh we haven't got much so far
because there haven't been that many
tariffs. But take a look at uh some of
the categories to look for even if we
don't get a big move uh on CPI as a
whole. Vehicles, parts, apparel,
electronics, uh furniture, and household
appliances. All things that come from
foreign countries here. And then here's
an interesting one. Beer and soda. I'd
sort of forgotten about this, but the
tariff on aluminum raises the costs of
the aluminum cans they come in. So those
could go up as well. Mike, the last read
going into the next Fed meeting, there
are some on the committee that might
vote for a rate cut at the end of July.
The chairman based on his communication
so far certainly won't. He came in for a
ton of criticism over the weekend. Mike,
it looks like a new line of attack.
Discussion so far this morning is the
price of firing the Fed chair. Not a
base case at the moment. Still a risk
and something we have to explore. Mike,
how are you thinking about that at the
moment?
>> Well, my guess is the markets would
react quite negatively. The first
question is going to be who takes over
and if it's one of the Kevin as you've
heard in a lot of the research that
might provoke a bad reaction uh from the
markets. Now uh if the president were to
fire pal I don't think anything will
happen in the short run in terms of the
Fed because the Fed will go to court to
try to prevent it. The Supreme Court's
already given them something of a
carveout and if you're going to fire
somebody for cause you have to prove it.
And I would just point to everything
that's been happening in uh the courts
and with Donald Trump. It takes a very
long time. So this could take us into
next year or longer for any kind of
resolution. But if he were to have to
leave, then John Williams would
temporarily take over as the chair of
the open market committee, which is
what's important. Uh and uh Philip uh
Jefferson would take over as the chair
uh who runs the rest of the Fed. So, uh,
there are procedures in place to keep
the Fed going. It's a question of
whether and when it could happen.
>> Mike McKe on tour. Mike, you enjoy
yourself. It's good to see you as
always. Always in a cabin somewhere.
>> So, there are 2,000 people who live in
Victor, Idaho. I had no idea. I was
looking.
>> What is he doing in said Victor right
now?
>> I don't know, but it looks really
beautiful. It looks like it might snow
there because he has the fireplace on
and it's very hot right now in New York.
>> We've said it a few times on this
program. This market will get a vote on
all of this long before a court decides
or the Senate has a confirmation
hearing. This market will get its vote.
>> At this point though, the market needs
to see the whites of the eyes of some
reality versus just job owning because
this market is sort of immune to some
some of the threats just simply because
there have been so many and they have
been fooled and uh so many times that
they just really don't want to get faked
out again.
>> Tomorrow we get some data. Mike Dada of
Roth Capital writing this. Given the
Fed's wait andsee approach, prospective
CPI readings may take on greater
importance for risk assets in the months
ahead. Mike joins us now for more. Mike,
welcome to the program, sir. What are
you expecting tomorrow morning?
>> Thank you for having me back on. So,
consensus is expecting a 3/10 rise both
headline and in core. So, I don't really
think that is going to change the mood
on the Fed. It's a very divided
committee. Uh, as you guys were just
discussing, um, I'm not super worried
about a big inflation spike here. And
the reason I say that is bond market
inflation expectations are very low and
steady. Some of the higher frequency
data actually looks pretty good. Uh,
there's a gauge called trueflation,
which is based on 80 million prices in
blockchain technology. Uh, super high
frequency. So, we have, you know,
year-over-year readings extending into
almost mid July here, 1.7%.
So, I don't think we need to worry about
a repeat of that three-year inflation
overshoot, which was really an aggregate
demand monetary policy story. The
tariffs could definitely create some
inflationary headwinds, but I think they
are temporary, and the Fed probably is
best to just look through them. If
that's the case, uh, Mike, do you see
this as a time for the Fed to be
cutting, especially if this CPI print
that we get tomorrow shows that ongoing
disinflation or at least not an
inflationary trend?
>> Yeah, I think so. I think they're
getting much closer to that point.
Probably September. That's what markets
are priced for. Uh, Fed funds futures
are priced for just under a 100 basis
points of rate cuts over the next year.
Uh that sounds like a lot, but it's
really not over a 12-month period if the
economy is softening a bit at the
margin. And I think, you know, some of
the data suggest that's the case. Not
falling off a cliff for sure, but we are
seeing a little bit of softness at the
margin with you know the most recent
jobs numbers. And also it looks like um
GDP underlying growth uh real final
sales to the private sector probably ran
around 1% or or so in Q2. So that's you
know that's much that's much softer than
what we've seen over the course of the
last you know two plus years. So I don't
think it's inappropriate for the Fed to
be starting to consider lowering policy
rates here. But I will say this, the
hectoring from the White House is wholly
unhelpful. I mean, even if the
administration were to convince Powell
to step away from the Fed and you know,
this stuff about the construction
project is just a fig leaf. It's pretty
obviously obvious what's going on here.
Uh it's completely out of line in my
view. But even if you were were able to
convince Paul to step down and and
someone else takes over, it's a
committee. They they operate by
consensus. So, it's really very unlikely
to to dramatically change the rate path
uh in any event. So,
>> hold on a second, Michael, because this
is actually one key question that the
market has, right, that the that people
are are questioning whether the market
is pricing in some sort of firing of Fed
Chair Jay Powell and would it have that
big of a reaction at all? Uh Peter Shear
was saying no, that it is a committee
and that people would look through that.
How much does it complicate a message
that actually would go the president's
way if he followed the economic data, at
least in your opinion? How much does it
complicate that kind of messaging from a
Fed that wants to appear independent?
>> Yeah, that's a great point. I think if
anything this hectoring in the political
pressure uh probably makes it more
difficult for the committee to move
forward with uh with rate cuts and
because they don't want to be viewed as
you know a bending to political
pressure. So I I think if anything uh
these kinds of shenanigans are likely to
backfire and it sets a terrible
precedent going forward. I mean you know
the Fed should be an in independent
institution. We can look back at what
happened with President Nixon uh when he
pressured Fed Chair Burns to
inappropriately run easy monetary policy
setting off a decade of inflation which
eventually culminated in doubledigit
interest rates. We saw a situation in
Turkey where President Erdogan tampered
with the central bank wanted low rates
easy money policy a currency collapse
and hyperinflation followed. So let's
get back to basics. If you want low
market interest rates, what do you need?
You need price stability. And I think
the Fed is well on their way to
achieving that in terms of ontarget
inflation. And you need budget
integrity. And the Fed has nothing to do
with that. And the administration in my
judgment and Congress are certainly not
on that path uh with the so-called big
beautiful bill that was miles and miles
away from an optimal outcome. Jonathan's
been talking about this Deutsche Bank
note about the risks of if Powell was to
be ousted are underpriced. What kind of
market reaction could we see if we've
come to that point?
>> Well, it's very uncertain. I think it's
just a matter of setting a very bad
precedent uh of political tampering or
the attempt uh to tamper with an
independent Federal Reserve. And you
really you look back at history and
politicized central banks uh don't
achieve optimal outcomes. Uh they might
do something that helps the sitting
administration in the short run. In the
long term prices paid by the public in
terms of higher inflation and lower real
income. So it's really not the path you
want to be going down. Very hard to say
in terms of the very short term. I mean,
what happens even if Paul were to step
down, I don't think it really changes
things dramatically in terms of, you
know, where the Fed is headed here given
that it's a committee and, you know, the
administration's not going to be able to
completely politicize the, you know, a
majority on the committee uh anytime
soon. That said, it's it's really a move
in the wrong direction. It's totally
inappropriate. They should just stop it.
Mike, just to put a bow on it, given all
the risks we've talked about, why are
market-based inflation expectations so
well anchored?
>> Well, I think they're well anchored
because the Fed has achieved quite a bit
of credibility here, right? I mean, they
obviously had a big goof uh in 2122
where we had inflation shoot up to
40-year highs. But you know they ended
up correcting that uh with 550 basis
points of rate hikes and were somehow
able to achieve a soft landing, avoid a
recession and now inflation has come
down to much lower levels historically.
So the bond market is giving the Fed the
benefit of the doubt. the institution
has really regained and re-anchored its
credibility and that's another reason
not to tamper uh with the Federal
Reserve in a political way because if
that credibility is lost it could be
very difficult to reach. They certainly
got very fortunate uh with this episode
a few years ago. You know why keep
playing Russian roulette with
credibility? Doesn't make any sense
whatsoever.
>> Mike, appreciate your time. It's been
too long. Let's do it again soon.
Michael Dada there of Rough Capital.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi John. We start with the latest on the
flood disaster in Texas. The search for
victims has resumed along the Guadalupe
River after recovery efforts had to be
put on hold yesterday following another
round of heavy rains. More than 160
people may still be missing after the
Jul July 4th floods that left at least
132 people dead.
Meanwhile, President Trump will head to
the UK for his second state visit of his
current term. In September, King Charles
III will host the president and the
first lady lady at Windsor Castle from
September 17th to the 19th. Trump called
the invitation an honor and said the
king was a quote beautiful and wonderful
man.
and 24year-old Aussie Grace Kim produced
one of the most impressive comebacks in
golf to win at the Evian Championship in
France. The former Youth Olympics
champion recovered from four shots
behind in a dramatic final round to
defeat the world's number two Gino
Thikul. In Kim's third season on the
LPGA, she only had one top 10 finish in
her previous 11 starts. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the week
ahead. Plus, Mark Cabana of Bank of
America as the pressure builds on Fed
share J Pal and why they don't think
this Fed cuts this year.
[Music]
I'm still relatively optimistic we'll
land somewhere with the European Union.
Um the Mexico letter was a bit of a
surprise to me given that they weren't
negotiating one of these full reciprocal
deals. It was really about steel and
aluminum. But that said, we've got 2 and
1/2 weeks to go and I expect to see a
bunch of deals and for those countries
that don't have them, I expect to see
those tariff rates go up. That was the
former senior White House trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw. Her message this
morning, the weekend's news is not for
you. It's not for you. It's for trade
partners. This is a negotiation. It will
continue for the next several weeks and
maybe beyond.
>> And guess what? The markets got the
message before she even said it because
they said, "Look, we've seen this movie
before. We're not going to freak out.
We're still having a beer on the beach."
And that's kind of where we are this
morning.
>> No freak out at all. 41 minutes away
from the up and equity futures negative
by just a quarter of 1% on the S&P.
Similar move on the NASDAQ. Likewise on
the Russell or the Russell the small
caps down by 4/10en of 1%. As we count
you down to the opening bow. Your week
ahead looks like this. And what a week
ahead later on today. President Trump to
make a statement on the Russia Ukraine
war. Tomorrow CPI plus JP Morgan City
Wells Fargo kicking off bank earnings.
Wednesday PPI. More bank results from
BFA Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
Thursday retail sales plus another round
of jobless claims. And heading into the
weekend on Friday, you consumer
sentiment. Fed chair J. Pal under
increasing pressure from this White
House. Mark Cabaler of Bank of America
writing this. Recent soft inflation
readings raise questions of whether
tariff inflation will emerge. If it
doesn't happen by the September FOMC,
the Fed may have to give up the tariff
inflation ghost and start cutting. Mark
joins us now for more. Mark, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That's not your base case, though, is
it?
>> It is not the base case. The base case
is that we will see inflation emerge and
we think we'll see some signs of that
tomorrow. We think that what you will
see in CPI is that there are bit uptick
in core goods uh especially with uh used
cars. We think that you'll see some core
services tick up as well. Um, and we
think that that'll give the market a bit
of pause and cause the market to really
ask itself, can we justify these 15 or
so basis points of rate cuts that are
priced in September or almost the two
full cuts that are priced by the end of
this year? And we think the market will
realize no. And then furthermore, on
Thursday, when we get retail sales, our
credit card data is pointing to a
rebound in consumer activity. Uh, our
economists have core control, I think,
at 0.9 uh month overmonth. Consensus is
0.4. So, if you get both of those
things, uh, a bit of an uptick in
inflation and signs the consumer is
stabilizing a bit, we think that there
are very good cases for a market to
start to question whether or not the Fed
should be on hold. And let's not forget
the fact that the most recent
unemployment rate reading that we had
was 4.1%. If you look at the full range
of outcomes that the Fed has in the
summary of economic projections, the
lowest unemployment rate reading at the
end of this year was 4.3.
So we're out of bounds as far as a tight
labor market is concerned right now uh
with regards to the Fed's projections.
So if you start to see this combination
of data, then the market's going to
start to pair back more meaningfully the
almost 50 basis points to rate cuts by
the end of the year. We think that'll
result in some modest upward pressure on
rates, some modest flattening bias on
the curve, and we think it's going to
justify our 10-year forecast for the end
of the year at 4 and a half%. So, you
believe in tariff inflation, not
necessarily the ghost of tariff
inflation. Uh, you're sort of rejecting
the disinflation deity. I have to give
you just, you know, a round of applause.
Really, that was fantastic. Good job.
Um, but I'm just curious. Uh, at what
point if you do not see the inflation
pick up, do you have to rethink your
thesis?
>> Yeah. So, as Jonathan noted, that quote
that we posted, um, at some point if you
don't see it, the Fed's got to start to
give up the ghost. Um, and there are
three CPI prints before September.
September may well be the time. Now, I I
do think that we're all looking for
tariff related inflation. No one exactly
knows when it's going to show up. There
are anecdotes that say uh especially if
you talk to our retail analyst, Lorraine
Hutchinson, uh she's been saying, why
would you expect to see tariff related
inflation right now? Because retailers
are still selling inventory that was
acquired pre-tariffs. Uh if you look at
the uh most recent FOMC meeting minutes,
there is a line in there that says
something very similar. So the Fed is
hearing this type of anecdotal feedback
and when we're all looking for something
and we don't know where it is, call it a
ghost, call it a deity, whatever you
want to, I do think that those anecdotes
really matter and the Fed is going to
rely a lot on those. And given how
pronounced it showed up in the minutes,
if you go back and read that tariff
related paragraph, it sounds like
they're hearing this not just from one
or two individuals in the economy, it
sounds to me like they're hearing it on
a pretty broad-based level.
>> So, in the realm of hypotheticals of
ghosts and deities, there's this
question of what happens if the Fed cuts
rates by one or two times this year and
you do see that stickiness in inflation.
What happens to the long end of the
yield curve?
>> It should steepen. you should price more
inflation risk premia much more than
you're seeing right now and that's one
of the reasons why we like being long
intermediate tenor inflation. If you
look at the inflation swaps market or if
you look at break evens right now much
of the inflation is really priced in the
first year or so. So the markets believe
that inflation is just a one-time
impact. It's going to come and go and
then we're going to be back at 2% no
problem. But I think what we're seeing
is that you're not getting that one-time
shock as cleanly as you thought. Right?
If you listen to Fed officials and most
economists talk about inflation, oh,
it's a onetime shock that the Fed should
just look through, but we're not seeing
it as a one-time shock right now. We're
collecting tariff revenue, right? It's
almost it's over 100 billion that we're
collecting this fiscal year. It's a lot
more than last year. So, the revenue is
being collected, but we're not seeing
that clean impact straight away. So, why
should the market think that we're going
to see a clean drop off in one year's
time? The risk to us is that we see a
more persistent impact of inflation less
sharp in the near term, but it very much
could stick around for a while. And if
you look at some of the supply
disruptions that we had with CO, we all
looked at the, you know, supply chain
disruption index, the New York Fed has
one, others have some. It it went up
quickly and then it faded real fast. But
inflation went up and then it stayed
somewhat elevated. It came down quite
slowly. And we do see risks that you're
going to see that with inflation. And
businesses are extremely thoughtful and
savvy about how they pass this through.
So why would we think that it's just
going to go up and down nice and neatly?
We don't. We think that you want to be
long inflation in the belly of the
curve. It's not pricing that type of
outcome. And we do think that if the
inflation sticks, it's going to be
around with us for quite some time. It's
going to make achieving 2% inflation for
the Fed a lot harder than what the
market is likely pricing right now.
>> 45 seconds on the clock. You had a word
there, the long end of the curve. I want
an additional one from from you on T-
billill auctions versus coupon auctions.
How's that going to change in the next
12 months?
>> Yeah. So, uh we think and our clients
believe that the US Treasury is going to
rely a lot more on short tenor issuance
versus long tenor issuance. We we titled
our weekly this past week the
Wambbulance to the rescue because I know
you like that, don't you? I did. Um
Katie Craig, shout out on our team.
Great great title. But but the market
believes that the weighted average
maturity or the wham of the US Treasury
debt will be going lower. And if Scott
Besson has been charged with lowering
longter issuance, he doesn't have a ton
of tools, but issuance is a really big
one that he has. And so there's all this
focus on wham right now and there was an
extremely elevated amount of focus on
>> I wish because I'm running out of time.
>> Okay, just give me a few more seconds.
But
>> literally got 10 left and that's it.
Then it goes bang and commercial begins.
Mark, I got to go.
>> Okay.
>> I appreciate it.
>> Mark Kapana, thank you America.